TITLE: Caroline Is Matchmaking (A Missing Link?)
AUTHOR: Ariane
DATE: 1999

		 The water was hot, the towels laid on the sides were numerous and thick, the scent Elsie had laced the bath with reminded her of roses...  Caroline lay in her bath, in pensive mood...  Only this morning had she received news of her brother's engagement. She slid deeper into the steaming water whilst yet again dwelling upon this intelligence. "What a fool to marry that Bennet girl! Are all my plans to come to naught?"  Her plans for her brother to marry Miss Darcy, whilst herself marring the brother were not going well, and she was pondering on the disturbing fact that the bethrowthal and subsequent marriage of her brother would put Elizabeth Bennet into the path of Mr Darcy.  She had no intelligence about the whereabouts of Mr Darcy and that was a disturbing fact!  If I don't act now, she will woe him and he will be lost to me forever!, I have to find an ally in this matter, my efforts alone in saving him from a disastrous marriage are not enough. Who's help could I enlist?  Colonel Fitzwilliam? He is too close to Darcy to be trusted not to divulge our plans  Charles? His character is too sweet and accommodating to have a strong effect on Darcy.  Louisa? No  Lady Catherine de Burgh?  The acquaintance is very slight, she comes to town but seldom and is never seen in society, but she most decidedly would be against this marriage. I have heard that she wants his nephew to marry her daughter. She is a very sickly creature and Darcy certainly never talks of her.  Yes, she would be my best ally in this matter!  I will write to her this instant.  She summoned Elsie, got dressed and requested tea to be brought to her rooms. She sent word to Louisa that she had some important matter to attend to and would not join them till supper.  The letter was very important and had to be written with care...  Mr Collins was engaged in his daily visit at Rosings when the butler delivered the post.  Lady Catherine, pleased with the interruption, read the letter without delay.  Mr Collins, who was carefully considering what compliment could be best used in this circumstance, witnessed the alarming speed of the paling of his admirable host and had to review his phrase with unnerving allarcity.  Lady Catherine dropped the letter and could not speak for a full 5 minutes while her face turned crimson!  How can this be possible?, OH! I cannot bear this, this vile rumour cannot be true...  "Anne, we are to go at once and confront the Bennet girl."  "Mother, what is the matter? Are we to go because of the letter you just received?  "Yes! Listen to this...."  She had quite forgotten about Mr Collins as he had found unusual wiseness in staying silent.   Lady Catherine, I hope this letter find you and your daughter well.  I write in the hope that you can enlighten me on a rumour spreading about town.  As Mr Darcy is your nephew, you will know the truth of the matter and can put my mind at ease, for assuredly I shall not rest until I have confirmation that this rumour is false.  It may have come to your Ladyship's attention that my brother is to be married to Miss Jane Bennet. Although I am completely against this match, which is so beneath our condition in life, I am truly alarmed at the rumour that your nephew is engaged to Miss Elizabeth Bennet .  Pray, do tell me this is not true as I am at loss to understand why, with so great a fortune and high standing in society, your nephew would choose to marry so below his condition.  I have the honour, Madam, to remain your most faithful and obedient servant,  Caroline Bingley   the end 
		 © 1999 Copyright held by author
		
		 
		  