TITLE: Engagement Announcements
AUTHOR: By Carolyn
DATE: ?

Jump to new as of April 8th
Note: Much of this story is taken from the novel itself.  Part 1   Returning to Longbourn, shortly after Elizabeth has accepted Darcy's second proposal.  Elizabeth left Darcy standing in the hall when they finally returned to Longbourn. With a smile on her face and her bonnet casually swinging by the ribbons from her hands, she made her way up the stairs to her room. She encountered Jane, who was just coming out of her own room.  "My dear Lizzy, where can you have been walking to?'' Jane question Elizabeth as soon as they entered Elizabeth's room.  "Mr. Darcy and I just wandered about, talking, that is all." Elizabeth tossed her bonnet on the bed. "Where did you and Mr. Bingley disappear to, Jane?" she asked trying to divert the conversation away from herself.  "Mr. Bingley and I were also talking. Lizzy," Jane spoke somewhat excitedly, "Charles has asked that I visit Netherfield to see if I should wish to make any changes regarding the furnishings."  "How very thoughtful of Charles, " Elizabeth remarked teasingly as she tried to bring some semblance of order to a wayward curl.  Jane blushed, "Indeed, he is very thoughtful. I do not know that I deserve such a man.  "Oh, you do, Jane, never doubt it," Elizabeth replied.  "Sometimes I think I am but dreaming, Lizzy" sighed Jane.  Further conversation was halted as Mrs. Bennet came into the room, "Jane, what are you doing here? You should be downstairs with Mr. Bingley." She steered Jane towards the door, all the while continuing her monologue, "Really, Lizzy, I cannot see how you came to be so late. I have had to set dinner back. I am sure it is all quite ruined. Well, if you do not mind dining on burnt food, I am sure Mr. Bingley does" she remonstrated, "And Mr. Darcy, too, I suppose, though I care nothing for hisopinion. Do hurry up, Lizzy," she called back over her shoulder as she led Jane out of the room.  Elizabeth abandoned wayward curl to its fate. Quickly, she washed her face and hands, and then hurried to join the gathering in the drawing room.
	▪	 Part 2  Hill came into the drawing room and announced that dinner was ready. As the family and guests made their way into dining room, Mrs. Bennet confided to Mr. Bingley, "Dinner will not be what you are used to, Mr. Bingley, for I fear you will find it overdone. If only Lizzy had not been so late"-- she cast an angry glare at Elizabeth-- I am sure the roast would have been fine."  Darcy was about to speak up regarding this slight to his beloved. However, Bingley unknowingly came to his rescue, or so it seemed.  "I am sure it will perfect, Mrs. Bennet," soothed Bingley, before he turned to Elizabeth, "Where did you disappear to? One moment you were behind us and the next you were gone."  "Yes, Lizzy, where can you have been walking to?'' asked Kitty, when they sat down to table. Elizabeth's father and mother were seated at the head and the foot of the table with Elizabeth, Mary and Kitty on side and Jane was seated between Mr. Bingley and Mr. Darcy.  "We simply wandered about..."  "Those that stay to the tried and true path seldom lose their way," Mary offered.  "Thank you, Mary. I will be sure to follow that advice in the future. However, I lost track of the time rather than my bearings," Elizabeth blushed as she spoke, remembering why the time had gotten away from her, but thankfully, her cheeks were still rosy from her walk so no one noticed--except Darcy, who found it delightful to observe.  Bingley and Jane, seated next to each other, talked and laughed throughout the dinner, occasionally making comments to all but generally keeping to each other's company. Darcy felt the unfamiliar stab of envy as he observed Bingley and Jane. Elizabeth was seated apart him, seemed to be in silent contemplation.  "Elizabeth, Elizabeth," her fathered called, rousing her from thought.  "Yes, Papa?"  "Elizabeth, you are unusually quiet this evening. I trust that your walk did not..." Mr. Bennet searched for the correct word--"overtire you?" he asked rolling his eyes to Darcy.  "No, Papa. Well, maybe. A little," Elizabeth realized she was babbling. Her father's raised eyebrow only received a small rueful smile in return.  Elizabeth ate her meal in a state of agitation and confusion. It would not have matter if the meal had been burnt, for she tasted nothing. She had been too busy contemplating her family's reaction to her engagement that she was unaware of the food in front of her.  "Elizabeth, child, are you quite well?" asked Mr. Bennet, eyeing Lizzy's plate.  "Of course, Papa," Elizabeth assured. "Why do you ask?"  "Because you are about to put a serving of turnips on your plate. Since you have not voluntarily eaten turnips since you were five years old, I am, naturally, somewhat concerned. However, if you had a change of heart regarding that much maligned vegetable. . ."  "I thought I would try to eat them again," Elizabeth answered hurriedly, having no idea how the bowl in front of her came to be there. "After all, tastes change. Mayhap I will learn to like them." Elizabeth looked at the mound of mashed turnips on the spoon, and wrinkled her nose. She put some on her plate and tried them. She still hated turnips. She hurriedly set the fork back on the table and took a drink of water. Elizabeth thought she saw a faint smile cross Darcy's face, but it was so fleeting that she thought she must be mistaken.  "It seems some tastes do not change," her father commented.  "Some do, Papa. Some likes and dislikes can change very much, given time," Elizabeth replied. She cast a quick glance to Darcy under her lashes.  Mr. Darcy was talking quietly to Jane. He face was serious. He had not of a disposition in which happiness overflowed in mirth. Elizabeth, knew that she was happy rather than felt herself to be so; for there were other evils before her--Mrs. Bennet had just addressed a comment to Mr. Darcy.  "I trust the partridge is to your liking, Mr. Darcy, I am sure it would have been better if..."  He answered civilly, "It is fine, thank you."  Mrs. Bennet, feeling that her duty to that not particularly welcome guest was over, returned to Kitty for conversation. "How did your visit with Maria Lucas go today? Have they heard from the Collinses recently?"  Mrs. Bennet ignored Darcy for the rest of the meal. If Elizabeth had any doubts about the others dislike Mr. Darcy they were put to rest. I fear that even with all his fortune and consequence my family may never except my choice of husbands. Except Jane, of course. Elizabeth smiled a little when she saw that Jane was trying to make Mr. Darcy feel comfortable after Mrs. Bennet's rude behavior.  Soon the ladies retired to the parlor, leaving the gentlemen to their port. A while later Mr. Bingley and Mr. Darcy joined them, Mr. Bennet retired to his library.  Darcy found a chair apart from the others, where he could observe Elizabeth without being obvious. He remained apart from the others until it was time for Bingley and himself to depart.  "Miss Bennet, I must thank you for the delightful walk today. I hope that we may be able to do it again sometime," Darcy said as made ready for departure, "perhaps tomorrow?" he asked quietly.  Elizabeth nodded. Darcy's parting glance left Elizabeth feeling quite giddy, for it contained such love that she was left breathless.  "You see, Lizzy, Mr. Darcy is not so disagreeable after all," Jane commented as she linked her arms around Elizabeth's. "He was quite polite during dinner this evening."  "Indeed," Elizabeth agreed, hiding a smile, how surprised Jane would be when Elizabeth told her of the day's events. "There is something I must confide in you, Jane" Elizabeth said, in a serious tone. "Can you come to my room after you have finished getting ready for bed?"  "Of course, Lizzy. I trust it is not bad news?" Jane asked, wrinkling her eyebrow.  "I hope not, Jane. I certainly hope not." 
	▪	 Part 3  That night, Elizabeth opened her heart to Jane.  "Jane, do you think being in love makes one lose their wits?" she asked as looked into the mirror.  "I have never found it to be so, Lizzy. Why do you ask? Do I show symptoms of madness?" Jane returned.  "Upon occasion--the heavy sighs, the distant looks into space, the expression of dreaminess upon the countenance. These are all signs of the madness of love are they not?" Elizabeth replied with a teasing smile, then she sobered somewhat. "You will let me know if I display these symptoms?"  "Are you expecting to lose your wits then, Lizzy, and become love-mad?" Jane asked.  "Yes," Elizabeth replied simply and happily.  "And who is the gentleman, Lizzy?" Jane asked eagerly.  "Can you not guess?"  Jane shook her head. Suspicion was very far from Miss Bennet's general habits, and she was absolutely incredulous at Elizabeth's revelation.  "Why, it is Mr. Darcy! Jane, there is no need to gape," Elizabeth told her sister, "Mr. Darcy has asked me to marry him and I have accepted."  ``You are joking, Lizzy. This cannot be! -- engaged to Mr. Darcy! No, no, you shall not deceive me. I know it to be impossible.''  Elizabeth smiled. ``This is a wretched beginning indeed! My sole dependence was on you; and I am sure nobody else will believe me, if you do not. Yet, indeed, I am in earnest. I speak nothing but the truth. He still loves me, and we are engaged.''  Jane looked at her doubtingly. ``Oh, Lizzy! it cannot be. I know how much you dislike him.''  ``You know nothing of the matter. That is all to be forgot. Perhaps I did not always love him so well as I do now. But in such cases as these, a good memory is unpardonable. This is the last time I shall ever remember it myself.''  Miss Bennet still looked all amazement. Elizabeth ceased smiling. Her face was utterly serious as she assured Jane of the truth. "Mr. Darcy has asked me to marry him and I have accepted."  ``Good Heavens! Can it be really so? Yet, I must believe you,'' cried Jane. ``My dear, dear Lizzy, I would -- I do congratulate you," Jane hugged her sister, then frowned as she let Elizabeth go. "Are you certain? Forgive the question -- are you quite certain that you can be happy with him?''  ``There can be no doubt of that. It is settled between us already, that we are to be the happiest couple in the world. But are you pleased, Jane?" she asked somewhat hesitantly, clasping Jane's hand, "Shall you like to have such a brother?''  ``Oh, yes. Very, very much. Nothing could give either Bingley or myself more delight," Jane's smile reflected her words. "But when we considered it, we always talked of it as impossible. And do you really love him quite well enough? Oh, Lizzy! do any thing rather than marry without affection. Are you quite sure that you feel what you ought to do?''  ``Oh, yes! You will only think I feel more than I ought to do, when I tell you all.''  ``What do you mean?'' Jane's brow wrinkled in puzzlement.  ``Why, I must confess that I love him better than I do Bingley. I am afraid you will be angry.''  Jane laughed. However, she would not be diverted from her purpose. ``My dearest sister, now be serious. I want to talk very seriously. Let me know every thing that I am to know, without delay. Will you tell me how long you have loved him?''  ``It has been coming on so gradually, that I hardly know when it began. But I believe I must date it from my first seeing his beautiful grounds at Pemberley,'' Elizabeth teased.  "Lizzy, be serious, when did you first love him?"  "Oh, Jane, how I would like to say that I was in love with from the evening he walked into the Meryton assembly, but I cannot."  "I really must date it from the time we met again at Pemberley. I was in the family gallery looking at Mr. Darcy's portrait when I become aware of a more gentle sensation towards him than I had ever felt before. The commendation bestowed on him by Mrs. Reynolds was of no trifling nature. What praise is more valuable than the praise of an intelligent servant?" Elizabeth asked her sister.  "Hardly any, for they know all our foibles and follies."  "Exactly!  "Every idea that had been brought forward by the housekeeper was favorable to his character. I stood before the canvas, his eyes seemed fixed upon myself, I thought of his regard with a deeper sentiment of gratitude than I had ever known before; I remembered his warmth, wish softened the impropriety of his expression of that regard."  As a brother, a landlord, a master, she considered how many people's happiness were in his guardianship! -- How much of pleasure or pain it was in his power to bestow! -- How much of good or evil must be done by him!  ``Now I am quite happy,'' sighed Jane, ``for you will be as happy as I will. I always had a value for him. Were it for nothing but his love of you, I must always have esteemed him; but now, as Bingley's friend and your husband, there can be only Bingley and yourself more dear to me. But Lizzy, you have been very sly, very reserved with me. How little did you tell me of what passed at Pemberley and Lambton! I owe all that I know of it to another, not to you.''  "Mr. Bingley has been telling tales, has he?" Elizabeth asked and Jane nodded. "The motives for my secrecy were that I had been unwilling to mention Bingley to you, for I knew you stilled cared for him and I did not wish to give you pain. The unsettled state of my own feelings had made me equally wish to avoid speaking of Mr. Darcy. But now I can no longer conceal from you his share in Lydia's marriage."  "His part in the marriage? How is Mr. Darcy involved?" Jane asked.  Elizabeth told her and half the night spent in conversation.
	▪	 Part 4. Darcy tells Bingley   Over at Netherfield, a conversation of similar content was taking place. The gentlemen had retired to the library where a decanter of brandy awaited their return from Longbourn. Darcy settled himself into a large wing-backed chair, while Bingley moved about the room, praising the perfections of his fiancee.  "Bingley," Darcy called for his friend's attention. "Bingley, do you think being in love loosens one's tongue?" he asked as looked into the glass as if it could divine the answer.  "Have I been rambling on?" Bingley asked. "I suppose I must have been. I also suppose that when one loses his heart, he is granted an eloquence of expression in return -- 'tis only fair. And I, my good friend, have lost my heart to Miss Bennet."  "It has not escaped my notice," Darcy replied somewhat dryly. "You will let me know if I begin to prose on in a similar manner?" He looked over at his friend.  "Ah, so you have lost your heart then," Bingley stated with a small nod of satisfaction as Darcy's meaning become obvious.  "Yes."  "To Miss Elizabeth Bennet?" questioned Bingley.  "How did you guess?"  "I may not be as atrociously clever as you are, but neither am I blind. At Pemberley, I began to see that your attentions lay in that direction. What is truly surprising is that Miss Bennet would agree to marry you," Bingley teased.  "I agree, Bingley. I am greatly honored that Miss Elizabeth Bennet has agreed to be my wife," he stated solemnly.  "Nothing could give either Jane or myself more delight," Bingley's smile reflected his words. "How long have you loved her?"  "I believe I must date it from my first seeing her at the Meryton assembly," Darcy replied.  Bingley snorted, "And to think that you were so smitten that you would not even dance with her."  Darcy groaned, "Very well, I shall not play the romantic for your benefit again. But please do not remind of my behavior that night. I was ... an ass."  "You were indeed," Bingley cheerfully agreed. "But tell me, when did Miss Elizabeth become 'handsome enough to tempt you'?"  "In truth, I cannot say; at first I scarcely allowed her to be pretty," Darcy shook his head at his own folly. "As you are aware, I had looked at her without admiration at the assembly; and when next we met, I looked at her only to criticize. Yet no sooner had I made it clear to myself that she had hardly a good feature in her face, than I began to find it was rendered uncommonly intelligent by the beautiful expression of her dark eyes."  "They are very fine eyes," Bingley agreed.  "Yes, and after I made that discovery, I was forced to acknowledge to myself that her figure was light and pleasing." He could not prevent the flush that came over his face, and would have blamed it on the heat from the fire if Bingley had been so impolitic as to question it.  "She is a delightful girl, Darcy. It does not pass all understanding that you should fall in love with her."  Darcy rose from his chair and walked over to the window. "It was during that time when she was here caring for her sister that I first began to acknowledge that I might have some strong feelings for Miss Bennet ... for Elizabeth. I began to comprehend her nature. Her care for her sister, her lively mind during our conversations, her playful nature -- all pleasingly illustrated her character."  "So you did not fall in love with just her fine eyes," Bingley teased, then became serious. "Perhaps that is why my sister was so uncivil to her, and more teasing than usual to yourself. Poor Caroline," Bingley muttered. His sister's hopes were about to be dashed.  "About Miss Bingley..." Darcy Began.  Bingley interrupted. "Caroline's hopes have been obvious for some time. I would have had no objections if your affections had been engaged by my sister. Indeed, I even wished for the match myself, a time or two. However, I had observed no particular regard on your part and would not wish a loveless match for my sister. Caroline knows what she wants, but I do not believe that she always knows what she needs. And she needs someone who will care for her inspite of, or maybe because of, her faults."  "Your feelings do you credit," Darcy said as he refilled his and BingleyÃs brandy snifters.  "A toast, Darcy," Bingley, said, raising his glass, "To the two most fortunate men in Christendom --that would be us--who are to marry the two best women on earth. May we live happily ever after."  Darcy raised his glass in agreement. 
	▪	 Part 5. A Most Happy Suggestion  "Good gracious!" cried Mrs. Bennet, as she stood her vigil at the front window the next morning, "if that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley! What can he mean by being so tiresome as to always be coming here? I had notion that he would go shooting, or something or other, and not disturb us with his company. What shall we do with him?" Spotting her second daughter, she ordered, "Lizzy, you must walk out with him again, that he may not be in Bingley's way."  Elizabeth could hardly help laughing at so convenient a proposal. She glanced at Jane with laughter in her eyes. All the same, she was vexed that her mother was always labeling Darcy with such wretched epithets.  "Such an unpleasant man," Mrs. Bennet said as she twitched the curtains closed.  As soon as the men entered, Bingley looked at Elizabeth so expressively, and shook hands with such warmth, as to leave her no doubt of his being aware of the engagement. He soon said aloud, "Mrs. Bennet, have you no more lanes hereabouts in which Lizzy may lose her way again today?"  "I advise Mr. Darcy, and Lizzy," (who exchanged quick glances) "and Kitty," (who shuddered) "to walk to Oakham Mount this morning. It is a nice long walk, and Mr. Darcy has never seen the view," said Mrs. Bennet  "It may do very well for the others," replied Mr. Bingley; "but I am sure it will be too much for Kitty. Won't it, Kitty?"  Kitty nodded eagerly, "I had much rather stay at home," she owned.  "I have a great curiosity to see the view from the Mount," Darcy professed.  "I am sure that you will find the view most interesting, Mr. Darcy," Elizabeth said, before leaving the room to fetch her bonnet and spencer.  As she went up stairs to get ready, Mrs. Bennet followed her, saying, "I am quite sorry, Lizzy, that you should be forced to have that disagreeable man all to yourself."  Elizabeth removed her jacket from the wardrobe as her mother prattled on.  "But I hope you will not mind it: it is all for Jane's sake, you know; and there is no occasion for talking to him, except just now and then. A remark or two about the weather can do no harm, I suppose, but do not put yourself to inconvenience."  "I shall not be troubled by Mr. Darcy, Mama. You may be sure on that account," Elizabeth said as she adjusted the ribbon on her bonnet. 
	▪	 Part 6. A Long Walk  The two couples set off.  "Mr. Darcy, I cannot tell you how delighted I am to be able to call you brother," Jane told him shyly.  "The pleasure is all mine, for your sister has made me the happiest of men," Darcy assured Jane, his manner serious.  "Yes, you cannot help but see the happiness on his countenance! Come, man, smile!" Bingley ordered.  Darcy complied. He offered his arm to Elizabeth, who was also smiling, "Shall we be off then?"  Jane and Bingley soon fell behind. When they were safely alone, Darcy began to speak. "Elizabeth, I would not wish to spend another evening as yesterday's. Being unable to speak with you in the manner that Bingley enjoys with your sister is unbearable. I will speak to your father this evening. You do have any objection?"  "I have no objections whatsoever." A sense of mischief arose within her. "However, what would you do if I did have objections?"  "I would be obliged to change your mind," Darcy replied.  "And how would you do that, sir?" she teased.  "By pointing out, again and again, how much I love and admire you, until you are quite weary of hearing it."  "A most proper response though I doubt that I shall ever grow weary of hearing that," Elizabeth replied, "But you may try wear me down as often as you wish." She sighed, "I suppose that I must also inform my mother this evening," Elizabeth reserved for herself the application for her mother's consent. As she reluctantly confessed to Darcy, "I cannot determine how she will take it; sometimes I doubt whether all your wealth and grandeur would be enough to overcome her abhorrence."  "I regret that I have caused her to be so vehemently set against me. Why did I behave so abominably when we first met?"  "Be at ease, Mr. Darcy. Though it pains me to say it, in abominable behavior I believe you and my mother were evenly matched." Darcy's eyebrows rose. "But you have much improved of late," Elizabeth concluded with a twinkle in her eyes.  "But whether she is violently set against the match, or violently delighted with it, it is certain that her manner will be ill adapted to do her credit. I could not bear that you should hear the first raptures of her joy or the first vehemence of her disapprobation."  "I would not wish for you to face any unpleasantness alone. It is my duty to stand beside you during times of stress."  "I do not have a likewise obligation? No, it will be for the best if I undertake that task myself."  Bingley and Jane joined them.  "Do you know, Mr. Bingley, about one year ago, I was standing upon this very spot, watching two men racing their horses across the open field. You would not happen to know the winner of that race?"  "I can tell you that it was not me," Bingley said cheerfully, "it never is. Darcy's horses are always superior -- as is his horsemanship."  Jane protested on her beloved's behalf, "You are a very fine rider, sir!"  "Well, I can keep seat, but it was not always thus, eh Darcy?" Bingley, with occasional help from Darcy, regaled the ladies with his misadventures in horsemanship as they made their way back to Longbourn. 
	▪	 Part 7. Darcy asks for Elizabeth's hand.  In the evening, soon after Mr. Bennet withdrew to the library, Elizabeth watched as Mr. Darcy excused himself from the company to follow her father.  "Please excuse me, but I wish to have a word with Mr. Bennet."  Elizabeth's agitation on hearing this seemingly innocuous remark was extreme. Jane came over and sat beside her, offering silent comfort.   ************************* Mr. Bennet had settled into his favorite chair. The fire was cheerfully blazing in the grate, his favorite sherry was decanted on the table and Mr. Tom Jones was getting into trouble -- again. All was right in Mr. Bennet's world.  Then a knock sounded on the library door. To his amazement, Mr. Darcy walked into the room upon his summons.  "If I may have a little of your time, Sir, there is something I must inquire of you," Darcy began in a hurried manner.  "Of course. Please take a seat, Mr. Darcy" Mr. Bennet offered with cool civility.  Darcy sat down for a few moments, and then getting up, walked about the room.  Mr. Bennet was surprised, but said not a word, just raising a quizzical eyebrow. When Mr. Darcy did not speak for several minutes, he lifted his sherry glass and began to drink.  "You must allow me to tell you how ardently I admire and love your daughter, Elizabeth. I have asked her to marry me and have received her consent. Now I am asking for yours."  Mr. Bennet's astonishment was beyond expression. The sherry he had been drinking spewed across the pages of Tom Jones. He hurriedly reached for his handkerchief to blot the unexpected spill.  "I am afraid that you have caught me unaware."  "Yes, I see that my proposal has come as a surprise to you, sir. I have long held feelings for your daughter in my heart and I wish I could be more eloquent on the subject, but I find the emotions are so great that it is difficult to put into words all that I feel."  "I was aware that was some speculation of a match between yourself and my Lizzy, which I had dismissed as silly gossip, my cousin, Mr. Collins, being the source of this information. Through him I am cognizant that there are certain members of you family who are opposed to the match. That the match is 'not looked upon with favor'. I would not wish for my daughter to be subject to the strife such disagreements tend to bring."  "My aunt has already made her feelings known to me. With all due respect to her opinion, it has not caused me to waiver in my devotion to your daughter. If my aunt cannot reconcile to my choice of bride then a separation must occur between us, for I also wound not wish for Miss Bennet to know discord."  In spite of his qualms, Mr. Bennet was not insensible to the compliment of such a man's affection for his favorite daughter, nor to the advantages such a marriage would provide.  "I hope that I will now be rewarded by your acceptance of my offer." Mr. Darcy, leaned against the mantle-piece with his eyes fixed on Mr. Bennet, so he could catch the words as soon as they were uttered.  "I give you my consent," ss he said this, Mr. Bennet could see that Darcy had doubts of a favorable answer, for he visibly relaxed upon hearing the favorable response. "However, consider it unofficial until I have had a chance to speak with my daughter. Please let her know that I wish to speak with her."  Mr. Bennet did not oppose the match. He was unhappy; though, and that it should be through Elizabeth's means -- that she, his favorite child, should be distressing him by her choice, should be filling him with fears and regrets in disposing of her -- was a wretched reflection. 
	▪	 Part 8. Go to your father  Elizabeth, meanwhile, sat in misery until Mr. Darcy appeared again. When looking at him, she was a little relieved by his quick, fleeting smile. She ventured a tentative one of her own.  In a few minutes he approached the table where she was sitting with Kitty.  "You have a very fine hand, Miss Elizabeth, with a needle."  "Thank you, Mr. Darcy," Elizabeth answered, with a questioning look in her eyes. She wanted to know how his interview with her father went, but she could not ask such a question aloud.  "Yes, a very fine hand, indeed," Darcy wanted to reach out and capture the hand in his own. Instead, he bent closer to Elizabeth's work. When he had leaned close to her ear, he whispered, "Go to your father, he wants you in the library."  "I fear my work is not as good as some, and my hand is quite tired at the moment. If you will excuse me," Elizabeth abruptly vacated her seat.  "Lizzy is there anything wrong?" Jane asked in concern, when she noticed Elizabeth hastily leaving Mr. Darcy alone in the room.  "The work has tired my hand, Jane. I am going to the library for a book," and she was gone directly.  "Don't upset your father, Elizabeth. You know he does not like to be interrupted when he is in the library," Mrs. Bennet called after her daughter. "Especially as he has already had one intruder there this evening," she followed this pronouncement with a shooting glance at Darcy. 
	▪	 Part 9. Elizabeth talks with her father  Her father was pacing about the room, looking grave and anxious. "Lizzy," said he, "what are you doing? Are you out of your senses, to be accepting this man? Have not you always hated him?"  Earnestly Elizabeth replied, "How I wish that my former opinions had been more reasonable, my expressions more moderate! It would now spare me from explanations and professions which are exceedingly awkward to give; but they are now necessary, and I assure you, of my attachment to Mr. Darcy is quite sincere."  "Or, in other words, you are determined to have him. He is rich, to be sure, and you may have more fine clothes and fine carriages than Jane may. But will they make you happy?" her father asked, his voice carry his disbelief in her happiness.  Elizabeth shook her head. "Have you any other objection than your belief of my indifference?" she asked.  "None at all. We all know him to be a proud, unpleasant sort of man; but this would be nothing if you really liked him."  "I do, I do like him," she replied, with tears in her eyes, "I love him. Indeed he has no improper pride. He is perfectly amiable. You do not know what he really is; pray do not pain me by speaking ill of him."  "Lizzy," said her father, "I have given him my consent. He is the kind of man, indeed, to whom I should never dare refuse any thing, which he condescended to ask. I now give it to you, if you are resolved on having him."  "Thank you, Papa," Elizabeth said quietly.  "But let me advise you to think better of it. I know your disposition, Lizzy. I know that you could be neither happy nor respectable, unless you truly esteemed your husband; unless you looked up to him as a superior. Your lively talents would place you in the greatest danger in an unequal marriage. You could scarcely escape discredit and misery. My child, let me not have the grief of seeing you unable to respect your partner in life. You know not what you are about."  Elizabeth, still more affected, was earnest and solemn in her reply, "Mr. Darcy has all of my affections. I am aware that you may find that statement difficult to believe. At times I still find it somewhat unbelievable. There has been a gradual change in my estimation of him. I had misjudged him early in our acquaintance. My own conceit and folly blinded me to the finer quality that he possesses. His affluence, while not of inconsiderable importance, is not of the most consequence. If you wish, I could enumerate all his good qualities," she offered, then continued without waiting for Mr. BennetÃs reply, "He has a generous nature. He is a good friend, a good brother and a good master to those on his estate. He has shown me civility, kindness, even chivalry."  Mr. Bennet raised his hand to stop her flow of words. "Well, my dear," said he, when she ceased speaking, "I have no more to say. If this were the case, he deserves you. I could not have parted with you, my Lizzy, to any one less worthy."  "He is the one who saved Lydia, Papa," she began to tell him what Mr. Darcy had voluntarily done for Lydia, in order to complete the more favorable impression.  He heard her story with astonishment. "This is an evening of wonders, indeed! And so, Darcy did every thing: made up the match, gave the money, paid the fellow's debts, and got him his commission! So much the better. It will save me a world of trouble and economy. Had it been your uncle's doing, I must and would have paid him; but these violent young lovers carry every thing their own way. I shall offer to pay him tomorrow; he will rant and storm about his love for you, and there will be an end of the matter."  "Oh, Papa," Elizabeth said, with a slight sigh, but perceived that he could be correct in his estimate of Darcy's reaction.  Then Mr. Bennet began to chuckle. "I have just recollected your embarrassment a few days before, when I was reading Mr. Collins's letter. Such a sly thing you were, Lizzy, pretending to know naught. Who would have believed the Lucases were more perceptive than I was? Or even your dear Mama, who can make a romance out of thin air?"  After laughing at her for some time, he gave her a warm embrace before he allowed her to go at last -- saying, as she quitted the room, "If any young men come for Mary or Kitty, send them in, for I am quite at leisure."  Elizabeth's mind was now relieved of a very heavy weight, her father was happy for her; and, after half an hour's quiet reflection in her own room, she was able to join the others with tolerable composure.  Every thing was too recent for gaiety, but the evening passed tranquilly away; there was no longer any thing material to be dreaded, and the comfort of ease and familiarity would come in time. 
	▪	 Part 10 Elizabeth tells her mother When her mother went up to her dressing room that night, Elizabeth followed her, to make the important communication. Elizabeth knocked on the door.  "Mama, I wish to speak with you."  "If it is about Hill having half a day off tomorrow, then I have already taken care of the matter. I don't see why you should concern yourself."  "No, Mama, I have something of import to tell you."  "Well, do not just stand there, say what is on your mind. You know my nerves never could stand suspense of any kind."  "It is about Mr. Darcy," Elizabeth began hesistanly, then winced as her Mother interrupted.  "Why Bingley must forever be bringing that man to the house, I know not!" Mrs. Bennet screeched, "The most disagreeable..."  "Mama! Mr. Darcy is not at all disagreeable. Please never call him so again. He has proposed to me and I have accepted!" Elizabeth cried.  The effect of this announcement was most extraordinary; for on first hearing it, Mrs. Bennet sat quite still, and was unable to utter a syllable. Elizabeth looked at her somewhat frightened by this totally unexpected behavior.  "Mama? Mama!?"  Nor was it under many, many minutes that Mrs. Bennet could comprehend what she heard; "Elizabeth to marry Mr. Darcy?" she thought. Though not in general backward to credit what was for the advantage of her family she could not believe what she had just been told, or that came in the shape of a lover to any of them.  Elizabeth could no longer bear the suspense. With a rueful smile at her own "nerves", she grabbed the smelling salts off her mother's dressing table and waved them under Mrs. Bennet's nose.  Mrs. BennetÃs nose wrinkled at the odorous stimulant. She began at length to recover. She began to get up, then sat down again. "Good gracious! Lord bless me! Only think! Dear me! Mr. Darcy!" Mrs. Bennet exclaimed, fidgeting about in her chair. "Who would have thought it!" she stood up. "And is it really true? Oh! my sweetest Lizzy! How rich and how great you will be!" She gave her daughter a quick hug before she sat down again. "What pin-money, what jewels, what carriages you will have!" fidgeting in her chair again. "Jane's is nothing to it -- nothing at all," getting up again. "I am so pleased -- so happy. Such a charming man! -- so handsome! so tall! " Mrs. Bennet fluttered about the room.  Grabbing her daughter by the arm, she cried, "Oh, my dear Lizzy! pray apologize for my having disliked him so much before. I hope he will overlook it. Dear, dear Lizzy," she hugged her daughter. "A house in town! Every thing that is charming! Three daughters married! Ten thousand a year!" she spun around in a circle, then clutched at her heart. "Oh, Lord! What will become of me. I shall go distracted," she cried, falling back onto the chaise lounge. "My salts, my salts!"  This was enough to prove to Elizabeth that her approbation need not be doubted. Elizabeth rejoiced that such an effusion was heard only by herself. As soon as she was able to, Elizabeth went away to recover her own composure. But before she had been three minutes in her own room, her mother followed her.  "My dearest child," she cried bursting into the room, "I can think of nothing else! " Mrs. Bennet paced around the room. "Ten thousand a year, and very likely more!" she fiddled with a bed curtain. "'Tis as good as a Lord! And a special license."  "Whatever for, Mama?" asked Elizabeth, "Such haste would be unseemly. I am willing to wait until the banns have been read."  "Nonsense! No, you must and shall be married by a special license!" Mrs. Bennet decreed. She stopped behind Elizabeth who was seated at the dressing table. "But my dearest love," she placed her hands on Elizabeth's shoulders, "tell me what dish Mr. Darcy is particularly fond of, that I may have it tomorrow. He did compliment the partridge the last time he dined with us. Is that a favorite? or some other game? duck? goose?"  This was a sad omen of what her mother's behavior to the gentleman himself might be; and Elizabeth found that, though in the certain possession of his warmest affection, and secure of her relations' consent, there was still something to be wished for. 

  