TITLE: Caroline's Journal 
AUTHOR: Chris
DATE: 2001

		Part 1|Part 2|Part 3| 
		 Chapter 1 Saturday, December 12, 1812  This has to have been about the worst day of my entire life. For today, I watched Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy, my true love, marry another woman. Losing him to any woman would have been bad enough, although I suppose if I had lost him to a society woman, it would not hurt nearly so badly. But to lose him to Eliza Bennet! A woman who brings nothing to him but her "fine eyes"! She may call herself a gentleman's daughter and therefore his equal, but her family! Her mother belongs in Bedlam, her sister Mary is perhaps the worst singer in the country and Kitty Bennet has to be the silliest girl in southern England. Also, does he not realize that by marrying that Eliza, he becomes the brother in law of his sworn enemy? With all these factors in my favor, why does he choose her instead of me?  I realize that unlike Eliza, I am not a gentleman's daughter. My father may have been in trade and my mother may only have been a vicar's daughter, but I would bring to a marriage with dear Fitzwilliam talents that Eliza will take years to learn if she ever does. I can properly conduct myself in London society. After all, I have been doing it for years! I can plan a party, run an estate household and decorate a house in the modern style. Was Charles not pleased with the way I redecorated the London house two years ago?  I know that I should be in bed. After all, did I not hear the clock strike midnight a few minutes ago? But how can I possibly sleep? For years I have dreamed about the day I would become Mrs. Darcy. In my dreams I had the perfect wedding planned. Everything would be perfect to the last detail--my dress, the church, the flowers, the wedding breakfast. Instead, today, the day my fondest dream should have come true, my worst nightmare was realized. I watched my true love marry another. While Eliza Bennet is off in London enjoying the wedding night that should have been mine, I sit here curled in my dressing gown, scribbling in this journal and drinking this wine that I had my maid sneak from the cellar. I do not know why I asked for the wine. It was a spur of the moment decision. I have heard of men trying to drink to forget. I know those long months that Charles was separated from Jane he did it on several occasions. I recognize that trying to get drunk in order to forget what has happened today is extremely unladylike, but society be damned. If getting drunk will ease this terrible ache in my heart, then the damage to my reputation as a proper lady is worth it.  But enough about my current state of misery. Let me describe this ghastly day and record how I got to this state of half-intoxicated despair. When I awoke early this morning, it was overcast, a fitting beginning to a day that would see my true love lost to me forever. I did not go down to breakfast. I sent word that I had a slight headache and that I would eat in my dressing room. It was a lie of course. The truth was that I could not bear to see my precious Mr. Darcy. It would be the last time that I saw him as a single man and the knowledge that I would never do so again was more than I could bear. So I sat upstairs with my tea and toast and steeled myself to make it through this day. Charles did not check on me, but I was not surprised, since his case of pre-wedding jitters began the night before. I was a bit surprised that Louisa did not come to see me, but she has been looking a bit ill these past few mornings. Could she be "in the family way"? Of course not. I doubt that Mr. Edward Hurst has stayed sober enough these recent weeks to manage it! Georgiana eventually came to collect me. She looked beautiful in the dress that the Bennets had selected for their attendants. It's entirely possible, I thought, as I walked down to the carriage with her, that she will outshine at least one of the brides!  The trip to the church was quiet, almost eerily so. I managed to sit next to Louisa in the carriage. For some reason, she looked a little ill, almost as though the motion of the carriage was making her nauseous. Since Georgiana had not been to Meryton before, she looked out the window the whole trip. Edward read his newspaper. I sat and looked at my hands. I kept repeating to myself over and over in my mind "I can do this! I can do this!" I must have said it aloud at some point, because out of the corner of my eye, I could see Louisa glance at me with a curious expression that seemed to say "Do what?"  We got to the church and Georgiana and Mr. Hurst went inside since they were in the wedding party. I told Louisa that I wanted to walk about the church grounds for a bit and she joined me. After a moment or two she declared that she was cold and that she was going inside. She promised to save me a seat. I wandered about the cemetery looking at the old gravestones until one of the ushers stuck his head out and signaled that it was time for me to come inside.  Louisa had managed to get us two seats on the outside aisle. I don't know why she picked that end of the pew, but I thanked her. Sitting on the center aisle I may have been tempted to trip Eliza as she went past. We had been to this church when we were at Netherfield last fall, so I knew that it was nothing more than a simple country church. The decorations were rather gaudy, but since this was not my wedding I had no right to criticize them. I managed to glance at the men in the wedding party a few times. Charles looked nervous, but happy. Mr. Hurst looked uncomfortable. Colonel Fitzwilliam looked handsome in his dress uniform and he was drawing a great deal of attention from the younger women like Kitty Bennet and Maria Lucas. Fortunately, the person in front of me kept me from getting a view of Mr. Darcy.  The wedding march sounded and everyone in the church turned to get a look at the brides. Everyone but me. I could feel Louisa twist around beside me, but I kept my head lowered. I did not look up until I saw them pass by me. For everyone else the march meant that "this glorious day" as Charles had described it had begun. For me, it meant my dreams had been shattered. My heart felt as though someone had hacked it in two. After one quick glance at the altar, I lowered my head again.  When it came time for the vows, Charles and Jane went first. I managed to watch them, even though Louisa asked me for my handkerchief since she was crying and could not find hers. Jane, I must admit, looked radiant and I do not believe that I have ever seen Charles look happier. Then it was time for Eliza and Mr. Darcy. I could not bear to watch it. Just hearing it was bad enough. It was as though my heart, which had been hacked in two by the opening notes of the wedding march, was now being cut into tiny pieces. How I succeeded in not bursting into tears I do not know. It must have taken willpower that I never knew that I possessed.  If the wedding ceremony was sheer torture, the wedding breakfast was at times almost strangely calming. For the meal itself, Louisa, Edward and I were at one end of the table near Mr. Bennet and Mary. Usually, I like to converse at mealtime, but not today. My heart still lay in tatters and I don't think that I could have held a civil conversation with anyone. I do not think that I have ever been more thankful to be in such close proximity to Mary Bennet in all my life, because I doubt she said more than two or three sentences to me the entire meal. Her father said no more than was polite. I'm not sure if he dislikes me or if he is usually that quiet around people he does not know well. Louisa tried to start a conversation with me but gave up after a moment or two. She spent most of the meal talking with Kitty Bennet and Colonel Fitzwilliam's brother Matthew who were diagonally across the table from her. Mr. Hurst spoke mostly with Mr. Bennet and I mostly stared at my plate, although I did catch Georgiana looking at me once or twice.  After the meal, there was a small party and then the happy couples left Longbourn. Charles and Jane went back to Netherfield and Mr. and Mrs. Darcy (that will take some getting used to) left for London. Before they left, everyone gathered to say goodbye and express their congratulations. I congratulated Charles and Jane wholeheartedly. I may have disliked Jane at first, but Charles has chosen her and I must live with it. Besides, as an in-law Jane will undoubtedly be a vast improvement on Edward Hurst! Congratulating Eliza and Mr. Darcy was perhaps the most difficult thing I have ever done in my life, but I did it without making a complete fool out of myself.  During that small party, there were several incidents that greatly disturbed me. The guests had moved into the drawing room after the meal and since the two couples were at one end of the room, most of the guests naturally stayed at the same end. I spotted a chair near the fireplace at the other end of the room and crept over to it. I was quite content to stay there, out of everyone's way and reflect on the day's happenings. I did take several opportunities to look around the room to see what was occurring. On perhaps the second or third of these glances about the room, I caught Mr. Bennet examining me closely. Our eyes met, but for no more than five or ten seconds. Before I broke away, I recognized an expression on his face. He had discovered my secret in those few seconds. I quickly jerked my eyes back to the fire, but a thought kept running through my mind, "He knows! Dear God, he knows!" I had not recovered from this when Kitty Bennet and Maria Lucas made their way over to me and inquired why I was sitting by myself. I do not know what sort of look I gave them, but whatever it was, it sent them scurrying back to the main group. A few minutes later, Georgiana came over and asked me much the same question. I do not know what I said to her, only that I must have vented all my despair and anger upon her, because when she hurried back to the rest of the party she was on the verge of tears.  The party at Longbourn eventually broke up and everyone made their way home. Georgiana expressed a desire to walk back to Netherfield and Kitty Bennet and Maria Lucas agreed to show her the way. I rode back to Netherfield with Edward and Louisa. Edward had filled his belly with the Bennet's excellent food, so he dozed off as soon as the carriage wheels began to turn. Louisa must have been a mind reader because she did not say a word during the short ride back to Netherfield. Within minutes we were back at Netherfield and everyone went his or her separate ways. I went up to my rooms and locked the door behind me.  I sat there for hours looking out the window, lost in thought. Being lost in thought, was in hindsight, the worst possible thing I could have done. During those hours I stared out the window, I kept rehashing the same two subjects over and over again-the wedding and the confrontation with Georgiana. Eventually, the maid arrived with my tray and my train of thought was broken. As I ate, I resolved to make matters right with Georgiana in the morning. I could do nothing about dear Mr. Darcy now. He was lost to me forever. But I could try and salvage something with Georgiana.  It is time for me to retire now. The clock has struck two and besides, the wine bottle is empty. I do not now what tomorrow will bring, but it cannot be worse than today. 
		 Chapter 2 Sunday, December 13, 1812  If yesterday was the worst day of my life, then this morning was a close second. I awoke this morning to a splitting headache and a nauseous stomach that made even the slightest movements difficult. For a moment, I was unsure what had brought on such an undesirable state of affairs, but as I carefully raised my head from the pillows, I saw the wine bottle on the table. It was then that I remembered, rather hazily I must admit, what had happened the day before. I had watched Mr. Darcy marry Eliza Bennet!  But if those memories were not painful enough, I recalled how I had spent the late night hours, scribbling in my journal and drinking wine. My journal! I rolled over to the bedside table, as another ferocious wave of pain burst forth from my head. This pounding in my head was met by another attack of queasiness as my stomach issued its' own complaints. I yanked the drawer open and saw that the journal was safe from prying eyes. A sigh of relief escaped from my lips, but even this was reason enough for my head to throb.  As I eased myself slowly back to my pillows, a ray of sunlight slipped through the curtains and added to my misery. When my head was back on a pillow, I pulled another over my face to shield my eyes from the sunlight that was steadily creeping into the room. I soon discovered that if I lay perfectly still, my nausea, while not going away completely, at least subsided a little.  While my squeamishness waned, I lay thinking of Mr. Hurst for some reason. There were many times that I had seen him drink a bottle of wine by himself. But I never remembered him seeing look as bad as I felt. As I lay there in misery, I began to worry about Louisa. If she were indeed pregnant, what would happen to her and her child if Hurst had a drinking problem? On most occasions when Edward had overly imbibed, he was content to sleep on a sofa. Was there a darker side to his intoxication? The more I thought about Louisa and my brother-in-law, the more concerned I became for her.  My concern for Louisa seemed to affect my own state as well. As long as I thought about her, the less noticeable the pain in my head was, although it reappeared whenever I moved my head or neck more than slightly. The quiet of my chamber was soon shattered by what sounded like a twenty-one gun salute. In reality, it was no more than a quiet tapping on the door and I could hear Georgiana asking if she could come in. I tried to raise my voice to bid her come in, but what started out as a call ended in a whimper as my head again threatened to explode.  The door opened and Georgiana came to stand by the bed. I raised one pillow to get a better look at her and a very strange thing happened. I have always thought myself to be adept at judging a person's emotion by studying their face, but I had never seen the transformation that took place on Georgiana's face. In almost an instant, her expression changed from one of fury to one of pity. She knelt down by my bed, as though to study me more closely. My heart sank, for I knew that her opinion of me was worsening by the second. After perhaps ten or twelve seconds, she whispered, " I wish to talk with you, but you are obviously not in a state to do so at this moment. I will see you in the back parlor in two hours. I will have a tray sent up for you." Then she was gone, and the door quietly closed behind her.  My maid appeared in a few minutes with the promised tray. It was a most unusual tray. Instead of the usual tea, there was only water. The toast was there, but in addition to the toast there was a glass filled with a murky brownish-green liquid and a note. As soon as my maid had left I opened the note, which was addressed in Georgiana's hand, "I have seen Mrs. Hudson make the concoction in the glass many times over the last few months and I have taken the liberty of having the cook make some for you. Drink it, for it will settle your stomach and ease the pain in your head."  To say that the contents of the glass looked disgusting would be an understatement. But Georgiana said that it would help and I was desperate for some sort of relief. My first tentative sip proved my theory right, but I nevertheless slowly emptied the glass. After a few minutes my stomach did begin to feel better, although my head took a bit longer. Within thirty minutes, I felt myself able to nibble some toast and have some water. An hour after consuming the mystery drink I had finished eating and had sent for my maid.  When I had bathed and dressed I slowly crept downstairs and made my way to the back parlor. I was not looking forward to this meeting with Georgiana and I paused for a moment to gather my courage. I opened the door and stepped into the parlor. I was startled to see that Georgiana had somehow acquired my cloak and my bonnet and they lay folded on one of the sofas. She soon gathered her own garments and motioned for me to do the same. As we reached the back door, she hesitated for a moment and asked if I knew of any paths near the house that would be suitable for a walk. I said that I knew of several and I led the way towards one that I believed would not be overly strenuous for us.  After a few moments of silent tramping down the path, my curiosity and dread got the better of me. I reminded Georgiana that she had wished to speak to me and inquired as to what the subject of our conversation would be. She stopped and in a remarkably calm voice, considering the anger that I had seen in her eyes earlier in the day, she recounted our conversation at Longbourn the previous day. Georgiana must have a superb memory, for I do not think that she left out a word, which I had said to her the day before. As she repeated my harangue against Eliza, the Bennets and even her brother, my shame grew. If someone had said to me even half of what I had said to her, the famous Bingley temper would surely have erupted.  Our previously steady pace had died almost to a crawl as Georgiana spoke. My shame and discomfort grew with each stride. Georgiana finished her speech by revealing what the original purpose of her visit that morning had been. She had wished to confront me over what I had said the day before, because my angry words about her new sister-in-law, who Georgiana clearly respected, had hurt deeply. Slowly and with a good deal of difficulty I spoke for the first time in the conversation "What stopped you?" I asked.  'The fact that you were still in bed and clearly looking miserable at eleven o'clock in the morning." was Georgiana's reply. "I saw that same misery on my brother's face several times in London earlier this year." I must have given her some sort of confused expression because she hastily added, "Did you not know that Lizzy refused him this past April?" I must admit that I had not heard that, but it did make Mr. Darcy's rather peculiar behavior of the spring and summer logical. I pondered for a moment and realized that Mr. Darcy must have tried to find solace in a bottle several times and that Georgiana had witnessed the results.  I did not have time to think on this point for long before Georgiana asked a very surprising and a rather personal question, "Are you in love with my brother?" she asked. My previous slow pace stopped and I must have shown my astonishment all over my face because Georgiana quickly added, "Yes, I can see by the expression on your face what the answer to my question is." In a faltering voice, I poured out all my despair of the past weeks. Georgiana was hardly the person to tell these things to, but as I told her what had happened, a great weight was lifted from my shoulders.  Georgiana, who had probably not realized that her questions would bring forth such a lengthy confession, seemed to absorb all I told her with a remarkably steady temper. She did not smile or look triumphant as I told her all that had happened since I had heard of her brother's engagement. On the contrary, she merely nodded and her face wore a concerned expression. When I had finished she merely stated that she now understood why she had found me in such a miserable state that morning. I smiled rather sheepishly and said that I had learned the hard way that one could not find comfort in a bottle for long. Georgiana then surprised me again when she said that her methods of dealing with a life-altering event had not proved to be any more effective.  She must have seen the puzzled look that passed over my face, because she began the story of her involvement with Wickham at Ramsgate in the previous year. I realized to my horror that my barb about Wickham that I had thrown at Eliza when we were at Pemberley had instead wounded Georgiana and had done so grievously. I made a note to myself to ask her forgiveness at the earliest opportunity. Georgiana, having finished the Ramsgate portion of her tale, moved onto the aftermath at Pemberley saying that she had desperately needed a confidante, but that she did not feel that she could approach her brother. Instead she had withdrawn even farther into her shyness and her music, sometimes not speaking to her brother for hours. I must say that I truly felt for her, because I too had been motherless at fifteen and would not have known how to handle things either.  When she had finished her story, I apologized profusely for the unintended attack at Pemberley the previous August. Georgiana graciously accepted, adding that since I had known about Ramsgate, I could not have known that any mention of Wickham would cause her discomfort.  We then moved onto what turned out to be a happier subject. Georgiana paused, smiled and asked in a shy quiet voice "Do you think that we will ever have the happiness that our brothers have been blessed with?" I chuckled and a frown crossed Georgiana's face. I hastened to tell her what had brought on the chuckle. After all, Georgiana was only sixteen and was not even "out" yet. There would be plenty of chances for her, and when the right man came along, he would accept her for who she was and that Wickham would not matter at all. I, on the other hand would be twenty-four at the end of January and unless I married soon, I was probably doomed to be a spinster. This statement brought forth a giggle from Georgiana who boldly stated that there was someone out there for me and I would simply have to wait until he came along. I smiled at Georgiana, marveling at the idealism that still remained within her, even after Ramsgate.  When we got back to the house, we were informed that we had missed a visit from Mr. and Mrs. Bennet and Mary. I was rather pleased that we had done so, because I could only take so much of Mrs. Bennet and Mr. Bennet's recognition of the jealousy that had passed over my face still troubled me.  Instead I crept up stairs and lay down for a rest. While I was resting I had what I can only describe as a most extraordinary dream. I was at a ball, but I was not dancing. Instead I was sitting to the side entertaining two children that looked like they must somehow be related to me. As I was keeping the children occupied, I noticed a man was coming through the crowd towards us. He was a tall man, almost gangling and all I could see of his face was that he had a brilliant smile that rivaled even my brother's. Very strange indeed. If it happens again I shall have to see if I can remember any more details. 
		 Chapter 3 Wednesday, January 6, 1813  The past few weeks certainly have been busy. It is almost impossible to believe that it's Twelfth Night and that the holidays are now over. But this has been a Christmas season like no other and things have happened that will surely take some getting used to.  Louisa, Mr. Hurst and I left Netherfield on the morning of the 16th. I'm positive that Charles for one was glad to see us go. In the past he had always allowed us to stay with him for as long as we liked, but that was when he was a bachelor. As a newly married man, living just three miles from his mother-in-law must have been difficult enough. After all, the woman visited Netherfield at least once a day! Having Louisa, Edward and I always around must have only added to his burden and to Jane's as well. They probably wanted nothing more than to be in the house by themselves. Instead they had all these relatives to entertain, not to mention Georgiana.  Georgiana and I went for a walk every morning and enjoyed each other's company immensely. After our discussion on the 13th, we never discussed her brother's new marriage again. That is not to say that we did not discuss marriage at all-quite the opposite! Her brother's wedding seems to have rekindled Georgiana's romantic nature and on the Monday morning, the 14th, she described her ideal man as we ambled along the Netherfield paths. Georgiana's enthusiasm was very different than my thoughts after Louisa got married. Since I was not particularly fond of Edward at the time, I had pitied Louisa somewhat. Georgiana appears to envy her brother a great deal.  While Georgiana seemed to crave her brother's happiness, she was also concerned for her own. The Ramsgate incident had shaken her confidence a good deal and she was worried that being overly cautious might drive the man of her dreams away. While I understood her fears (after all, I would have the same worries) I sought to calm her, echoing the words that she had used the day before, when I had expressed my own uncertainty about my future. Wickham had also increased Georgiana's anxiety about her brother's role in her future. After all, if she married, especially before reaching 21, her brother would have to give his consent. Again I tried to reassure her, but at the same time, my thoughts drifted back to my own situation. Would Charles be as vigilant in defending my fortune and interests as Mr. Darcy would be in defending Georgiana's? I would like to think that Charles would be able to prevent me from making a dreadful mistake, but would he also interfere unnecessarily if I had made the right choice?  On Tuesday morning, the 15th, we talked mostly about London society. While Georgiana was not "out" yet, she was interested in what happened there. I promised that I would write to her and keep her informed of my activities and everything that I saw or heard. I must say that I looked forward to the assignment. Georgiana and I had grown closer over the last few days and I believe that while we are not yet close friends, we are friends and not merely acquaintances.  Our journey back to London on the 16th was a quiet one, with no problems besetting us. Edward fell asleep before we were out of Meryton and only awoke when we reached the outskirts of London. Louisa looked a little ill once we reached the London road. I looked at her quizzically, since she has never suffered from motion sickness. Not surprisingly, the thoughts that I had entertained on Saturday when I thought that she might "be in the family way" returned. Since Mr. Hurst was asleep, I determined to ask Louisa, but she had nodded off, resting her head against my shoulder. This prevented me from reading my book, but I was not very upset. I had started a book at Netherfield that Charles had recommended, but I was not finding it very enjoyable, so I was content to look out the window and meditate on what had happened over the last few days.  My thoughts followed what must have been a fairly predictable pattern. I contemplated life after Mr. Darcy, which was a strange concept indeed, since so much of my thinking over the last two years had centered on life with Mr. Darcy. I knew that I must put him behind me and move on, but it is so very difficult to suddenly shelve two years worth of dreams and expectations and start again. Georgiana certainly seemed to think that there was someone out there for me, but was that the idealistic belief of a 16-year-old girl? Eventually, I began to ponder the dream that I had had on Sunday afternoon. Was the man in it my future husband? Would it be practical for me to hold out for this man when I had never seen his face? This troubled me a great deal and I resolved to examine the problem further, but our arrival in London kept me from doing so.  Upon our arrival in London, the carriage was unloaded and Louisa, Edward and I sat down to a meal before retiring. My post had been left on a table in my room and I perused it briefly. There was nothing that required my immediate attention so I put it aside and prepared for bed. Once my maid had left me, I opened my book and began to read. After a chapter or two, it began to improve and I read it until I fell asleep. I awoke once during the night when I rolled over onto it and the corner dug into my back. I fished it out of the bedclothes and dropped it onto the floor and went back to sleep.  The next day we all kept very busy. The final touches to the decorations were made and Louisa and I approved them. I finally opened my post and spent much of the afternoon responding to the letters I had received. While I was working on my correspondence, Louisa and Mr. Hurst went to call on old Mr. Hurst, who lived with Edward's brother, George, and his wife. I did receive one visitor while they were out, so I was fortunately able to take a break from my letters, which were becoming tedious.  On the 18th, Edward left for his club and I went to pay a few calls of my own. After extending holiday greetings to several of my friends, I returned home, arriving almost simultaneously with a half-intoxicated Mr. Hurst. Both us of were surprised to meet the doctor in the drawing room, but Louisa reassured us that no one was in need of his services and that he had only been there to impart his own holiday wishes. While this answer was entirely plausible, there was nevertheless a certain glow in Louisa's eyes that puzzled me. I resolved not to press her about it though, realizing that she would reveal her secret when she was ready.  The next week progressed along similar lines as Louisa and I went shopping and visiting, usually together, although she did go shopping with Sarah, George's wife, on at least one occasion. I thought nothing of this however, since it was a common occurrence during the Christmas season.  Christmas Day itself was quiet. It saddened me somewhat to realize that this was the first time Charles and I had been apart on Christmas. But my sadness was tempered a little when I remembered that he would have to endure Mrs. Bennet, Kitty and Mary who would assuredly descend upon them at the earliest opportunity. The gift opening went smoothly and I believe everyone was happy with what they received. I was just about to summon a footman to carry my new belongings upstairs when Louisa asked me to return to my seat. She announced there was one more gift and Mrs. Longstreet, the housekeeper, slipped from the room and reentered with a single package.  Louisa asked Mrs. Longstreet to give the mystery package to Edward. He looked at it curiously and then shrugged his shoulders and tore off the paper. I do not think that I will ever forget his reaction when he saw the package's contents. I have seen many people look incredulous, but he easily surpassed them all. He kept looking at the package and then at Louisa, with his eyes getting larger and his mouth hanging farther open with each passing moment. After my third request to see what had caused such a response, he held up the book, although he still looked a little dazed. One look at the cover of the book, which was about fatherhood, confirmed my suspicions-Louisa was pregnant!  After what seemed to be an eternity, and with several false starts, Edward finally managed to stammer "Are you trying to tell me something?" Louisa giggled and replied "I would have thought what I am trying to tell you should be fairly clear by now!" With that Edward fairly flew across the room and swept Louisa up in an embrace. When they parted, I offered my own congratulations and inquired as to when the child was expected, which turned out to be sometime in July.  The news that he was to be a father created an entirely different version of Edward. I think he has been more attentive to Louisa in the last twelve days than he has in the last twelve weeks! On New Year's Eve, George and Sarah Hurst came calling with their little boy, Roger. When they got to the drawing room, Edward excitedly grasped George by the hands and told him the news. (The look of disbelief on George's face when Edward grabbed his hands came close to surpassing Edward's own on Christmas morning). George and Sarah extended their heartiest congratulations to Louisa and Edward, although I suspect that Sarah knew beforehand and advised Louisa on the book.  On Boxing Day, my pen fairly flew across the page as I wrote to Georgiana with the news. That day I felt an excitement that I had not known for months. I was going to be an aunt! I received a letter from Georgiana on New Year's Eve and her enthusiasm about Christmas at Pemberley rivaled my excitement about the baby. The presence of Eliza at Pemberley certainly seems to have made it a happy time again, although Georgiana, perhaps trying not to cause me pain, was not too effusive when singing Eliza's praises.  I received a reply to my Boxing Day letter today. Georgiana has asked me to pass on her congratulations and those of Mr. Darcy and Eliza to Louisa. So that I may do so, I will close for now. 
		 Chapter 4 Thursday, July 22, 1813  What a strange and wonderful day today has been. I have scaled the peaks of happiness and plunged into the depths of anxiety. I have seen a loved one in great pain and I have watched that same loved one as her euphoria soared to new levels that I may never know. But every minute of this day has been worth it, no matter how many gray hairs may be added to my head. For this afternoon, my nephew, little Samuel Matthew Hurst entered this world and I believe that he had already changed it for the better  Little Sam (because Samuel Matthew is much too big a name for such a tiny thing!) was born this afternoon after a labor that lasted most of the day. The birth itself unnerved me a great deal, but I had promised to be there with Louisa so I stayed with her. There were times, however, when Sarah Hurst spent more time ministering to me than to Louisa! Fortunately, the doctor was also there, so he was able to care for Louisa while Sarah tended to me in the corner.  The day's events began at the breakfast table, when Edward noticed that Louisa was in a great deal of pain. Edward has been very protective of Louisa these past seven months. In fact, he has made a nuisance of himself at times. (So much so that Louisa made a small sampler that read "I'm fine. Go away!" which she would hold up whenever he asked if there was anything he could do for her, an occurrence that transpired two or three times an hour when we were at home.) He observed the pain as it passed across her face and hurried to her, his own concern apparent. Within seconds, he ascertained that her time had come and he bellowed for Mrs. Longstreet, the housekeeper, and Mr. Bradshaw, the butler. Two footmen were quickly dispatched, one to fetch Mr. Maxwell, the doctor, and the other to alert George and Sarah Hurst that they were needed.  Sarah has been a godsend to Louisa since Christmas. Before, I was invariably able to help Louisa overcome any difficulty, despite the fact that I am the youngest. This has been an event in which I was unable to offer any assistance. Sarah has capably stepped into the gap and has been such a tremendous support to Louisa that I felt a pang or two of jealousy. My jealousy was instantly forgotten however, when I realized that this was a time when I could not help and that it was proper for Louisa to lean on Sarah, "the old experienced hand" as she calls her. We always giggled whenever Louisa said "old" because Sarah, at 26, is younger than Louisa by at least a year. Nevertheless, if Roger is any sign of Sarah's maternal skills, Louisa has chosen wisely in selecting someone to model herself after.  While the footmen were out delivering their messages and the rest of the staff began making the necessary preparations, Edward and I eased Louisa out of her chair and helped her upstairs. Once we had her in her room, Mrs. Longstreet escorted Edward out of the chamber, while her maid and I helped her into her nightgown and got her into bed. Sarah arrived within minutes (it was fortunate she only lived a mile away) and she quickly moved to the bedside, where she sat in the chair and began to comfort Louisa. Sarah's arrival was well timed, because the pain that Louisa was experiencing had begun to make me nervous. The doctor appeared shortly afterwards and Sarah motioned for me to sit down on the other side of the bed, so I would be in a position to help Louisa.  Sarah had taken the bedside chair and I looked around the room to see if there was another one that I could move. Unfortunately, the arm chairs by the fireplace were much too bulky to move into the confined space near the bed. I opened the door to request that a chair be brought up for me and I witnessed a most curious sight. In addition to Edward, who was pacing up and down the hallway, there were three other Hurst gentlemen sitting outside the door. The fact that George and Roger were there should not have surprised me nearly as much as it did, but it did startle me a little. What truly surprised me was the presence of old Mr. Hurst, who sat next to little Roger. The four men wore an interesting variety of expressions. Edward was naturally concerned and it showed. Roger, who was only three, had an expression that made it abundantly clear that he was wondering why "Unca Eddie" was marching up and down the hallway. George and Mr. Hurst looked a little amused, both at Roger and at Edward, who stopped and asked me for news.  Edward was a bit disappointed that nothing had happened yet, and he looked even more nervous when his father spoke up and informed him that "These things sometimes take hours son. It took you almost nine hours to come into the world and it took George over twelve. But rest assured that the wait, which I know at times can be agonizing, is well worth it." Mr. Hurst's statement startled Edward a bit, and he resumed the pacing that had stopped when I opened the door. The revelation that the birth could take hours surprised me as well and I momentarily forgot my task. After a moment or two, I collected myself and asked about a chair. George, who could see that Roger was getting restless, sent him to take the message to Mr. Bradshaw or Mrs. Longstreet.  A few minutes later, Roger came scurrying back up the stairs, followed by Mr. Bradshaw, who had brought my chair. The fact that the butler had brought the chair, and not a junior footman puzzled me, and I asked Bradshaw why he had brought it and not one of the footmen. He smiled a little sheepishly, explaining that he had been curious about Louisa's condition. His concern touched Edward and I, and we promised to inform him and the rest of the staff when the baby arrived.  I took my chair and moved it close to the bed. Louisa reached out and I grasped her hand. I could tell from the way she gripped it that the pain was slowly getting to be unbearable. Sarah must have seen me wince when Louisa squeezed my hand even tighter, because she murmured something to Louisa who released my hand. Sarah and I sat there by the bed for hours, trying to comfort Louisa. As time went on, I said less and less. After all, this was the first birth that I had ever attended, and I let Sarah do most of the talking. Several times, when I had not said anything for ten or fifteen minutes, Louisa turned to look at me, as if to reassure herself of my presence.  By early afternoon, when Louisa had been in labor for about five hours, I began to get very anxious. I had never seen anyone in such pain and the fact that I was unable to do anything to relieve it troubled me greatly. Sarah, whose powers of intuition and understanding appeared to increase with each passing moment, must have realized that something was bothering me. She crossed to my side of the bed and, taking me by the arm, led me to the armchairs that were on the far side of the room, near the fireplace. She made me sit down and kneeling next to me, inquired about what was distressing me. I told her, and I must admit that my apprehension about Louisa had me on the verge of tears. Sarah had a remarkable ability to calm people and she quickly eased my fears, telling me that compared to Roger's birth, things were going well, although they were taking longer. Since Sarah and Roger did not appear to have suffered any permanent damage to their health, this story had the desired effect and I soon regained my composure. I stepped out into the hallway to tell the men what was happening and to get a glass of water from the pitcher they had obtained from Mrs. Longstreet.  When I reached the hallway, an amusing scene unfolded before me. Edward was sitting in a chair holding a children's book with Roger asleep in his lap. Across from them, George and Mr. Hurst sat talking in hushed tones. George motioned me over and whispered to me what had happened. Roger had evidently tired of listening to his father and grandfather read to him and had begged for "Unca Eddie" to tell him a story. Edward, who had been pacing again, had sat down and Roger had climbed up into his lap. Halfway through the story, Roger had dozed off, trapping Edward in the chair. Mr. Hurst added that two good things had come out of it. It saved considerable wear on the floorboards and it gave Edward some practice in telling bed time stories. I let out a little giggle and Edward looked up and smiled. I crossed over to him and gave him the news about Louisa, which brought on another smile. When Mrs. Longstreet appeared, I asked her for another pitcher of water and some glasses. One of the maids returned with them and I took them back into Louisa's room with me.  I set the tray on the table near the fireplace and when Sarah walked over for some refreshment, I told her what had happened in the hall. My mentioning Roger and his request for a story made her chuckle, but a cry of pain from Louisa sent us hurrying back to her bedside.  We resumed our vigil and several more hours passed. Finally, at about five o'clock, the baby was born. The doctor announced that it was a boy and that it appeared to be perfectly healthy and Louisa sank back onto the mattress and began sobbing. This puzzled me for a moment, until I realized that her tears were not those of unhappiness or despair, but those of sheer joy. As soon as the baby had been wrapped in a blanket, the doctor handed it to Louisa, who held it and looked at it with a beautiful expression on her face. I don't think that I have ever seen her happier. Sarah and I clustered around her and we all studied the little boy. The three of us examined him for a few minutes, trying to determine which parent he more resembled. Louisa spoke first, cooing "Look, he has his father's eyes! And his father's mouth!" Sarah added that his coloring appeared to be closer to Louisa's than to Edward's. I noted that while the baby had Mr. Hurst's eyes, he definitely had the Bingley nose. Louisa peered at him and agreed with me. After about five minutes, the baby who had been remarkably docile, began to cry again.  Sarah then remembered that we had not told Edward the good news! She crossed to the doorway, opened it and motioned to Edward. He came bounding through the door and knelt by Louisa. Louisa pulled the blanket away from the baby's face and said "Edward, I would like you to meet your son, Samuel Matthew." Edward looked down at the little bundle cradled in Louisa's arms and I noticed that a few tears rolled down his cheeks. As I stood watching them, I was pleased by the fact that Louisa had named her son after our father. I felt a tug on my arm and turned to see Sarah at my elbow. "Let's give them some privacy," she said and I followed her from the room.  When we exited the room, George, Roger and Mr. Hurst all clustered around us, begging for a description of the child. Sarah and I happily complied and I noticed a small smile cross Mr. Hurst's face when Sarah mentioned the name. "Could his name be Matthew?" I wondered. That must be it, I thought--Louisa and Edward have named Samuel after his grandfathers! After about twenty minutes, the door opened and Edward stepped out into the hallway with Samuel. He proudly showed his son to his relatives. After everyone had examined the newborn, Edward asked George to inform Mr. Bradshaw and Mrs. Longstreet. George took Roger by the hand and they disappeared down the stairs. After about 10 minutes, Edward and Samuel went downstairs with Sarah, Mr. Hurst and I following.  The staff had assembled in the drawing room. Edward made a little speech, expressing his gratitude for their hard work over the past seven months. He praised all the baby clothes that Mrs. Longstreet and the maids had sewn and thanked the male staff for all the assistance that they had given Louisa. After he had finished speaking, he made his way around the room, letting all the servants look at Samuel.. All of them admired him, even Mr. Bradshaw, who smiled for the first time in years.  Edward took Samuel back upstairs after half an hour and laid him in his crib. I followed him into Louisa's bedroom and noticed that Louisa, no doubt exhausted, had fallen asleep. Edward seemed content just to sit by the bed and watch her, a small smile fixed on his face. I leaned over and in a whisper reminded him that we had promised to send word to Charles and Jane when the baby had come. He looked up and told me that I could write them. He was happy to sit with Louisa. I went down to the library and sat at Louisa's desk. I dashed off a quick message to Charles and Jane that I sent express to Netherfield.  I was in the midst of a longer letter to Georgiana, detailing all the day's activities when the library door opened and Edward entered. He crossed to his desk and sat down. When I had finished my letter I glanced over at him and saw him with his elbows on the desk and his chin resting on his fists. He appeared to be deep in thought. I asked him if anything was the matter and he raised his head. "No," he said "I was just thinking about what has happened today. I am still completely overwhelmed by it. Today is the day my life has changed forever." I got up to leave and as I reached the door, I thought, "Today is the day all our lives have changed forever." 
		 Chapter 5 Sunday, December 12, 1813  Why did I ever come back to this place? What persuaded me to come back to the house where I spent some of the unhappiest days of my life? Oh yes, I remember now, family obligation, that sense of duty which causes you to ignore all other instincts, including those that ensure your own sanity. No, that is a bit harsh on Charles. He probably never realized how unhappy I had been here when he invited us back to Netherfield to celebrate his anniversary.  The invitation arrived on Guy Fawkes Day. We had spent the three months since Sam's birth spoiling the little babe. He was the apple of everyone's eye from his parents to even the lowliest members of the staff. Everyone truly seemed to enjoy doing things for him. In early September the maids and Mrs. Longstreet had made him his "winter wardrobe", as Louisa calls it. Not to be outdone, the footmen and the driver carved him a chest full of new toys. The driver worked on one for weeks, carving it as he waited for us while we were shopping or making calls.  It was a happy time. My life revolved around my London friends and little Sam. I kept fairly busy socially, and my letters to Georgiana were full of the details of London's summer and fall fashions. I looked forward to the upcoming season, where perhaps I would at least see this mystery man who still inhabited my dreams on occasion. My quiet, peaceful little world, where I did not think at all of Fitzwilliam Darcy, came crashing down that Friday afternoon in early November.  The invitation did not specifically mention the Darcys, although I had no reason to believe that they would not come. After all, this sounded very much like a family gathering. Charles and Jane had been joined together on the same day as Mr. Darcy and Elizabeth (Georgiana has quite correctly pointed out that I should refer to her as Elizabeth or Mrs. Darcy), why should they not have a joint party? For some entirely illogical reason that I do not understand even now, I convinced myself that the Darcys would not be at Netherfield. That some factor that I did not know about would keep them away. That dream, which had no basis in logic or reality was broken the following Tuesday when we received a letter from Charles that revealed that Jane and Elizabeth had been planning this party for weeks. "Oh lord, if Elizabeth is planning it, then the Darcys will surely be there!" was the one thought that I remember running through my mind for the rest of the afternoon  .  I spent the rest of November mentally preparing myself to be in the presence of Mr. Darcy once again. I had not seen him since "The Day", yet the remnants of that old pain came back to the surface. It was surprising how much of a blessing little Sam had been to me. Ever since the Christmas announcement that Louisa was pregnant, I had worried about her. In the time since Sam's birth I had worried about him. Now I was put back into the position of having to worry about myself. How would I react when I saw Mr. Darcy again? Would I faint? Would I get an attack of "the nerves" like Mrs. Bennet? Would I be able to say anything at all? I constantly had a vision of coming face to face with him, turning white as a ghost and standing there unable to say a word as Elizabeth and her sisters laughed at me.  Our departure to Netherfield this past Friday was delayed. Edward and his brother George had some business that they needed to attend to, so our mid-morning departure was delayed for several hours. When we eventually departed, Louisa, Sam, and I rode in the carriage with the nurse and Louisa's maid. We had decided in the interests of space in the carriage that we would share a maid for the week we would be at Netherfield. I gave my maid a week off to see her family in Middlesex, since she would be spending the holidays with me. Edward rode his horse, joking that for the first time in months he could enjoy a little "peace and quiet". Louisa gave him a sharp look but I could not help letting out a little giggle.  We made good time to Netherfield, considering the recent snow. Sam kept us entertained for a while (it is amazing how he can keep us all enthralled!) but he dozed off after a time and we rode the rest of the way in silence. Louisa eventually fell asleep herself while her maid worked on her sewing and the nurse read. I was glad that we did not converse for the remainder of the journey. It gave me time to steel myself for the meeting that I had spent the past month dreading.  As it turned out, our arrival at Netherfield was just in time for dinner. Jane quickly had places set for us and then explained why the group in the dining room seemed so small. The Darcys, accompanied by Colonel Fitzwilliam, had arrived the day before and had gone to dine at Longbourn with the Bennets. They would be expected later. I felt a strange mix of emotions at the news. Part of me was glad that they were not there and that the reunion had been delayed. Another part of me was slightly disappointed. I had entered the house as emotionally prepared as I could be and now I was afraid that I would let my guard down.  Dinner was enjoyable, as everyone spoke about what they had been doing. Not surprisingly, Edward and Louisa spoke about nothing but Sam. Sam was also a feature of my own conversation, although I did pass along the latest society news to Charles and Jane.  When we broke up after dinner, the nurse brought Sam to Louisa. Jane had not seen him, and she fussed over him a great deal. While she was doing so, she asked Louisa a lot of questions about babies and pregnancies. Louisa and I quickly deduced why she was asking and we asked Jane if she had her own "bundle of joy" on the way. Jane smiled broadly and confirmed our suspicions, telling us that her child was due in late May or early June. Just as we finished congratulating her, the gentlemen returned and Louisa and I were able to congratulate Charles as well. We all retired after that and as Louisa's maid was helping me get ready for bed, she passed on the news from the servants' hall. The excitement that was sweeping through there was "Very familiar", she said. I nodded and sent her to help Louisa. I climbed into bed blew out my candle and fell asleep.  The next morning at breakfast I was startled to see that there were no gentlemen at the table. Jane informed me that Charles, Edward, Mr. Darcy and the Colonel had already eaten and were out shooting. Elizabeth and Georgiana had gone for a walk and would eat later. I was disappointed, for I had emotionally prepared myself and once again I had not seen Mr. Darcy. My fear of that sudden unexpected meeting grew with each passing moment. I only hoped that the nightmare in which I acted foolishly was just that, a nightmare.  The remainder of the morning was uneventful enough. I read in the library for a time until I heard Georgiana and Elizabeth return. Upon hearing their voices, I crept up the staircase to my room where I wrote several letters. Jane had told me when luncheon was to be served, and a glance at the clock revealed that it was very nearly time to eat. I packed up my writing materials and made my way to the dining room.  When I got there, Jane announced that the meal would be delayed while we waited for the return of Mr. and Mrs. Darcy and Colonel Fitzwilliam. She suggested that we adjourn to the sitting room and wait for them. After perhaps fifteen minutes, Jane had tea served and the assembled group continued its' pleasant conversation. I sat on a sofa with Louisa and Sam and spoke with Louisa, Georgiana (who sat across from me) Charles and Jane. I had just placed my cup and saucer back on the table when it happened. He walked in and I stopped, with my arm still reaching out towards the table.  Before I realized it, the nightmare began to come true. I just sat there, with my arm in the air as every part of my body screamed "Get out! Run! Get out!" But I just sat there, as motionless as a statue and my face must have turned a deathly shade of white because I could see the concern evident on Georgiana's face. I tried to get her to read my thoughts as they continued to scream at my body, which still refused to respond. She must have realized what I wanted after a moment or two because she made some excuse to Charles and asked if I would join her. Hearing her voice broke the spell my body was under and I could feel my legs move me out into the hallway. Georgiana and the housekeeper waited with my garments and I fairly staggered outside.  When we were outside in the gardens, we walked until we came to a spot where I knew we could not be observed from the house. I simply stopped where I was and reached out with my hand and leaned against a tree. Georgiana stood near me, with a troubled expression. After a few minutes she asked about my condition. I took several deep breaths and told her. " I never thought that just seeing him again would be like a physical blow. It was almost as though someone had struck me."  Georgiana nodded as if she understood. "Yes," she replied, "I had a very similar experience last night. Mr. Wickham is perhaps Mrs. Bennet's favorite son in law and she mentions him constantly." My eyes grew wide and then Georgiana continued, "She must have been instructed not to mention his name, but every time she spoke about 'My dear Lydia's husband' I knew who she was referring to and it was as though she had struck me."  We walked about the gardens in silence for perhaps half an hour and then made our way back towards the house. When we reached it, I said that I would not be eating and Georgiana nodded. I thanked her profusely for what she had done for me and she just nodded again. I could not help but wonder if she realized just what a godsend she had been to me in the last hour. To have someone to confide in, who understood your difficulties and could discuss them without being judgmental was truly a blessing.  We parted in the hall and Georgiana made her way to the dining room while I snuck up to my room and flung myself down on the bed. If the wedding day had been the worst day of my life, this day stood a good chance of besting it. Just the mere sight of him had caused me to make a fool out of myself and I was sure that everyone in the room, except Sam had noticed.  I do not know how long I lay there constantly reliving the scene in the drawing room in my mind. After a time there was a knock on the door and Charles and Louisa came in. They sat on the bed, one on each side of me and looked at me for a moment or two. Charles seemed reluctant to begin so Louisa simply asked, "Caroline, what is the matter?" I sat up and told them about my emotions of a year ago and how difficult the days leading up to the wedding and then the wedding itself had been. How I had curled up in a chair that night writing in my journal and getting drunk. I told them how Georgiana had become my confidante the day after and how she had rescued me again today. My brother and sister merely sat there and nodded, letting me pour my feelings out. I could tell that Charles was becoming uncomfortable during my confession, as though he thought that his invitation to the anniversary party had been a deliberate attempt to cause me pain. He began to apologize and I cut him off, laying my hand on his arm. "Charles," I said "I confided in no one but Georgiana. You could not have known that this reunion would be difficult for me. I had prepared myself to see him as soon as I got here and he caught me with my guard down. It will not happen again. He is part of the family and your friend. I cannot go running from the room every time I see him." That seemed to satisfy them and they left me, informing me what time dinner was to be served.  I stayed in my room and read until it was time for dinner. When I arrived in the dining room, Jane greeted me and asked me if I was feeling better. I paused for a second, unsure how to respond and she added, "You looked a little faint before." I nodded, realizing this was the excuse that Georgiana had made for me. I said that I was feeling better and thanked everyone who asked after me. Georgiana had been seated across from me at the table and when I caught her eye I mouthed "Thank you". She smiled and nodded. The rest of the evening was fairly pleasant, considering the disaster in the drawing room. I found that I could be in the same room as Fitzwilliam Darcy and even speak to him without too much difficulty. 
		 Chapter 6 Monday, May 23, 1814  I am an aunt again! This morning my first niece, Frances Margaret Bingley was born. She is an adorable thing, the exact image of her parents. Fanny (that is what everyone has decided to call her) does not seem to have much hair, but the little hair she does have is blonde like her parents. She has Charles' green eyes and Jane's usual angelic expression. The labor was different than Louisa's, it took longer, but Jane did not seem to suffer as much from the pain as Louisa did.  As I reflect on the past day's events, I cannot help but chuckle as I compare Fanny's birth with Sam's. In both cases, their mothers' labors began at mealtime. Jane had just sat down to supper when she gasped in pain. Everyone hurried to her and as Charles and Louisa helped her from her chair, Edward began shouting for the housekeeper and the butler. Mrs. Hampton and Mr. Graham arrived quickly and Edward explained the situation to them. As Mrs. Hampton and Mr. Graham scurried off to perform their appointed duties, Charles and Louisa assisted Jane up to her room. Edward wrote a quick note to the Bennets and dispatched it with a footman to Longbourn. Another footman was sent after the doctor.  When the doctor arrived from Meryton, Louisa and Jane's maid had already changed her into her nightdress and gotten her into bed. Mr. Graham and several of the footmen had set chairs up in the hallway. Edward guided Charles to a chair and told him to sit down. Charles did so and Edward sat down next to him. I sat down across from Charles. We had just made ourselves comfortable when there was a commotion downstairs and the sound of footsteps as someone hurried up the stairs. Charles seemed a little startled and we all turned to look down the hallway in time to see Mrs. Bennet hurry down the hallway, trailed by Mr. Bennet, Kitty and Mary. After the briefest of greetings, Mrs. Bennet entered Jane's room and we could hear her excited tones as she spoke with Jane, Louisa and the doctor.  Mr. Bennet glanced at the door to his daughter's room for a moment or two then turned and spoke with Charles. After perhaps five minutes, Mr. Bennet departed, telling us that he would be in the library if there was any news. Mary soon left and went down to the music room, but Kitty stayed for a short time. She sat down next to me and we talked for perhaps ten or fifteen minutes about London and London society. However, Jane's cries of anguish and Charles' increasingly agitated state frightened Kitty and she hurried downstairs to join her father in the library.  That left only the three of us sitting outside the birthing room. Edward sat across from me looking alternately concerned and amused. After a time, his amusement over Charles' activities won and he leaned back in his chair and began to laugh. Charles had been marching up and down the hallway much like Edward himself had that July morning ten months ago. Charles could not help but hear the sound emanating from his brother-in-law and he spun around, his expression changing from one of agitation to one of anger. I had begun to rise from my chair, fearing that there was about to be some sort of confrontation, but there was no need for me to be concerned. Edward stopped laughing, but the smile remained on his face. "Charles", he said, "Let me give you the same advice my father and brother gave me. The only things that all this pacing will accomplish is to make your feet hurt and to wear out the floorboards!" Charles looked at him for a moment and then made his way to his chair and he sat down.  He remained still for about five or ten minutes and then his restlessness began again. Edward glanced at him for a second or two and then looked at me. "Caroline, what would your parents do when Charles was this restless as a boy?" I thought for a moment and I replied, "Father would read to us or Mother would play on the piano or sing." I then understood why he had asked the question and I went downstairs to find Mary. I did not want to hear Mary sing, but she was not a bad player, considering that she had received no lessons. She was in the music room, sitting on the sofa reading a book. After telling her that there was no news, I explained the situation to her and asked her to play something soothing. Mary crossed to the piano, flipped through the first two or three pieces of music that were on stand and selected something. I listened to the first two or three bars, nodded my approval and went back upstairs.  In my absence, either Edward or the nurse had brought Sam and he was sitting in his Uncle Charles' lap studying his face. I remembered the scene from the previous summer and giggled. Edward looked up and shrugged his shoulders as if to say, "It worked for me didn't it?" My smile broadened and I crossed to my own chair and sat down. The music, (Mary had picked an excellent piece for calming nerves), quieted my agitated senses and I soon found my memory drifting back to an earlier conversation in that same music room.  It had been two days since the incident in the drawing room where I had made a fool out of myself upon seeing Mr. Darcy again. After confessing to Louisa and Charles, I found myself actually able to speak to the man. We began simply at first, speaking of the weather and the condition of the roads, but we soon moved onto other topics such as society news and mutual acquaintances in London. The longer we talked, the more my confidence grew. I began to realize that I had begun to put Fitzwilliam Darcy behind me and that I could actually be in the man's presence without falling to pieces like I had two days previously.  Earlier that morning, during our walk, Georgiana and I had agreed to meet in the music room so that we could share the new pieces of music that we had been learning. When we reached the door of the room, Georgiana said that she had forgotten something and that she would meet me inside. I opened the door and stepped into the room. Someone was at the piano and when the person turned, I could see that it was Elizabeth. My presence in the room appeared to startle her and she sat there, looking at me for a moment or two before saying, "I was expecting Georgiana." I must admit that I was as surprised as Elizabeth, but I soon began chuckling and shaking my head. This confused Elizabeth somewhat and she blurted out "What's so funny?"  "This must be Georgiana's way of giving me a well-needed push." was my reply.  My answer only seemed to confuse her and she said, "A push?"  "Yes, a push to do something that I should have done long ago, which is to apologize."  Hearing the word "apologize" really seemed to surprise her, because she sat back on the piano bench with her eyebrows raised. I mustered my courage, made my way over to the chair next to the piano, sat down and began. I started by apologizing for the manner in which I had treated Jane, saying that my impression that she would be unsuitable for Charles could not have been further from the truth. I asked forgiveness for my role in separating them (something that Elizabeth already seemed to know about) and I related how, judging by his letters, the previous year had been the happiest in Charles' life. Elizabeth opened her mouth as if to speak, but before she could do so, I moved onto the more difficult part of the apology.  I took another breath and began with my story about Mr. Darcy. How I had been in love with him and how he had clearly not returned my affections despite my best efforts. I told her that I had seen her as a rival and that I had done my best to destroy her, not realizing that my attempts to deflect Mr. Darcy away from her had exactly the opposite effect. I finished by asking forgiveness for all the pain that my anger and bitterness had caused her. Elizabeth sat still, absorbing what I had told her. A few minutes passed and she looked up, with a strange look in her eye.  "You said that you were in love with my husband. Judging from what happened in the drawing room on Sunday, you still are."  I blushed, looked down at my shoes, and then replied, "I cannot deny that I still have feelings for Mr. Darcy, but they are fading. I have done many things in my life that I am not proud of, but I will not add husband stealer to that list. You have nothing to fear from me." This declaration seemed to satisfy her and after another brief pause, we began to talk about Charles and Jane and even what fun being an aunt was. She could see how I glowed whenever I talked of Sam and I hoped that she could experience the same joy, both with Jane's child and perhaps her own someday.  After talking about children, we eventually moved onto another subject of great interest to us both, Georgiana. Elizabeth stated that she marveled at Georgiana's growth over the last year and I said that most of the credit for that growth probably belonged to her. She blushed and said, "Not all of it. Much of it can be credited to the person she writes to every week!"  It was my turn to redden and Elizabeth rose and touched my arm. "There is no need to blush. It helps to have a confidante." Despite her admonition that I should not be embarrassed, I colored a bit more. Elizabeth smiled and told me how, when she was Georgiana's age, she and Jane had shared everything, even their deepest secrets. She also said that Georgiana obviously told me things that she would never tell her. My tongue eventually began to work again and I agreed that it was wonderful to have a confidante, especially one who had shared so many of life's difficulties. This statement seemed to puzzle her and I merely said, "I know about Ramsgate."  Elizabeth raised an eyebrow and said, "When did she tell you?"  "The morning after your wedding. She had guessed my secret and after I had unburdened myself, she felt the need to do the same." I replied. Elizabeth nodded and our conversation, which was growing more and more pleasant, moved onto...  What in God's name is that noise? The sounds of a piano jerked me back to the present. Edward was dozing with Sam in his arms, but Charles was looking about confused. Mary had evidently abandoned the soothing pieces that she had been playing earlier for something that can only be described as mournful. I lifted a sleeping Sam out of Edward's arms and crept down the hall to the nursery where I laid him in his crib. I then hurried downstairs to speak with Mary.  Mary looked up from her music as I entered the room. "Is anything the matter?" She asked as her fingers stopped. I looked at the music and questioned her why she had chosen that particular piece. She shrugged her shoulders and said that it had been the next piece in the pile.  I then scooped up the pile of selections that were about the piano, looked through them and extracted two or three works that appeared to be excessively sorrowful. I handed the pile back to Mary and added two pieces from a pile that sat on a nearby table. "You are doing a wonderful job of quieting everyone's nerves," I said, "but please, do not play anything that sounds so sad. It's almost like a bad omen." Mary stared at me curiously for a moment and then nodded as if she understood. There was even a small hint of a smile on her face.  Soon afterwards, I went down the hall to the library and slipped inside. Mr. Bennet was asleep in the chair by the fire. His book had fallen from his grasp and his glasses had slid halfway down his nose. Kitty was asleep on the sofa, with a novel clutched in her hands. I eased the book from her grip and set it on the table. I quietly exited the library and almost immediately bumped into one of the maids. I told her to get some blankets and to cover Mr. Bennet and Kitty. After procuring a pitcher of water and some glasses from Mrs. Hampton, I made my way upstairs. Charles was sitting quietly in his chair and Edward was still asleep. Charles drank a glass of water and after murmuring his thanks he returned to his thoughts.  We sat there together in silence for a time, but I must have eventually dozed off after a while, because once again I found myself replaying the ball that I had dreamed about for over a year. All the clues that had been revealed in the previous dreams were there, including the clue from my visit in December, when I noticed that the man making his way towards me did not wear a uniform. There seemed to be something new this time. What is it? Wait, he's speaking, saying something to Charles and Edward who seem to have appeared suddenly. I can't quite make out his voice. He's educated, obviously, and is dressed like an English gentleman, but I can't understand what he's saying. I've heard that sort of accent before, but where? I think I remember now. Why am I being shaken?  I awoke to see Edward gripping me by the arm and shaking me. This had better be good, I thought. When my senses were alert enough to understand him, I could hear what he was saying. "It's a girl!" he grinned. "Looks just like her mother according to Louisa!" I collected myself and stood just as Mr. Bennet, Kitty and Mary came up from downstairs. As we gathered in the hallway, the door opened and Charles came out with his daughter in his arms. We all gathered around and I saw that Louisa's description had been perfect. She did look exactly like her mother. "The face of an angel," murmured Mr. Bennet and I nodded in agreement.  After the staff had been informed of the news, the Bennets went home. I spoke with Louisa for a while and glanced in at a sleeping Jane. Slumber suddenly seemed like a very good idea and I made my way to my room with the dream replaying in my head. "Where had I heard that sort of accent before?" I kept wondering. 
		 Chapter 7 Monday, October 17, 1814  This is my first entry from Charles and Jane's new home! They have certainly chosen a fine estate, where they can raise young Fanny in something resembling peace and quiet. The new manor is called Foxchase and it is on the Staffordshire-Derbyshire border about a day's ride from Pemberley. Charles found this estate in early September and Jane and Fanny joined him by the end of the month.  I should not be too surprised that Charles and Jane have decided to leave Netherfield. What did startle me was the fact that evidently Jane has been the advocate for moving away from Longbourn. Her enthusiasm for being able to live so close to her mother was readily apparent at the time of the wedding, but Charles said that Jane has wanted to move away from her mother for months. The baby merely delayed their plans.  In a way, I can understand Jane's desire to leave. She is a married woman now, with a husband and a child. She has her own household to run and if she wants her mother's advice on how to handle a particular matter, she could easily ask for it, since her mother was only three miles away. But Mrs. Bennet seemed to spend as much time at Netherfield as she did at Longbourn and this must have made even Jane's patience wear thin.  Jane will get her chance to run her own household at Foxchase. It is a slightly smaller estate than Netherfield, but it has its own qualities. The views of the countryside from the upper windows are far superior to those at Netherfield. They may even come close to rivaling the view from Pemberley. (Strange how I seem to compare everything to Pemberley!) The grounds near the house are equally splendid and there are several trails that look promising when I take my first walk in the morning. There are even two or three secluded spots where I might sit and think if I choose to do so.  I arrived here with Edward, Louisa and Sam in late afternoon. We will be here a week and then Kitty and Mary Bennet will join us for another week. After that, the Hursts and I will return to London and Kitty and Mary will return to Longbourn. I was at first a little worried that Mrs. Bennet will be here with us, but evidently Charles and Mr. Bennet managed to persuade her to postpone her visit until Christmas.  Having spent the summer maintaining my correspondence with Georgiana, I was actually quite interested in seeing Kitty and Mary without their mother present. For it seems that Cupid has once again been hard at work and Kitty and Mary may be among the latest targets for his arrows!  That Kitty would one day find love does not surprise me. She has always been a pretty, lively girl and my last visit to Netherfield in July confirmed Charles' observation that she has improved greatly, now that Lydia is no longer able to influence her. It is her choice of future husband that somewhat puzzles me. If you had asked me two years ago what sort of man I envisioned Kitty marrying, my answer would have been an immediate "An officer!" I don't think that the idea of her marrying a clergyman ever crossed my mind! But if Georgiana's letters are to be believed, Mr. Medcalf is an exceptionally handsome clergyman, so perhaps that has influenced Kitty somewhat.  If Kitty's apparent interest in a clergyman surprised me, the identity of the man who appears to be interested in Mary Bennet has left me in a state of complete bewilderment. It is none other than Georgiana's cousin Colonel Fitzwilliam! This turn of events has left everyone at Pemberley in shock according to Georgiana. Even Mr. Darcy seems to be surprised by his cousin's interest in Mary.  Before I write on for pages about how surprised I am about Mary and Colonel Fitzwilliam, I should probably stop and give a chronology of what has occurred since Fanny's birth in mid-May. The Darcys returned to Pemberley in early June. About three weeks after their return, the new clergyman for their living at Kympton arrived. In her letters, Georgiana described Mr. Benjamin Medcalf as a very handsome man, an opinion that every eligible young lady in the parish seems to have agreed with.  As the summer passed, I began to detect something in Georgiana's letters that worried me. She seemed to have developed feelings for Mr. Medcalf. While I would not go so far as to label the emotions that were in her letters as love, they did seem to show that she was developing an infatuation. I became even more concerned when it became apparent that Mr. Medcalf only showed her the deference that was due to her as the sister of his patron. Georgiana was in danger of having her heart, which had only begun to repair itself, broken again.  The blow came in mid September. When Jane and Fanny left Netherfield, Kitty and Mary, who were on their way to Pemberley, joined them. Everyone was to stay at Pemberley while Charles supervised the final arrangements at Foxchase. Then Jane and Fanny would journey to their new home while the younger Bennets stayed on at Pemberley. Unfortunately for Georgiana, it seemed to be love at first sight for Mr. Medcalf and Kitty. Mr. Medcalf, who had apparently not been interested in any of the local girls, seemed to be badly smitten by Kitty's liveliness and beauty.  I had warned Jane and Elizabeth of my fears and for the next three weeks, the letters flew back and forth between us. Elizabeth wrote that Georgiana tried not to allow her feelings to show, but nevertheless Elizabeth could see that Georgiana had been disappointed. Elizabeth's use of "disappointed" calmed me somewhat, since it looked like Georgiana would not try to make things difficult for Kitty. Georgiana, after some gentle but persistent prodding from the three of us, eventually revealed her feelings. Elizabeth's guess had been correct. Georgiana was not jealous, merely disappointed at having been passed over so quickly.  While Kitty's interest in a clergyman (even an extraordinarily handsome one if Georgiana's description is accurate) left me confused, that confusion paled in comparison to the collective astonishment that ensued when Colonel Fitzwilliam began to spend time with Mary Bennet. I pressed Georgiana for details and she complied, but when I read her letters, I could see that even the people at Pemberley, who noticed the unusual couple everyday, were as bewildered as I was.  Evidently, it began about a week or ten days after Mary and Kitty had arrived at Pemberley. Kitty and Mr. Medcalf would take walks or go riding and Georgiana, still licking her wounds, spent a lot of time practicing the piano or playing with Fanny. Mary, not wanting to intrude on Georgiana's practice time, occupied herself by making use of the splendid library. One day, wishing to take advantage of a beautiful afternoon, she took her book and found a quiet place in the garden to read.  Colonel Fitzwilliam, who was also enjoying the fine weather, was walking about the garden when he came across her. After asking what she was reading, he sat down beside Mary and they talked about the book for the rest of the afternoon. According to Georgiana, when she went looking for them at dusk, they were engaged in a friendly, but spirited debate about Hamlet. Mary, who had only recently discovered Shakespeare after Elizabeth suggested that she try something besides Fordyce, seemed genuinely pleased to have someone to talk with on an intellectual basis. Georgiana also noted that her cousin, who she says is an admirer of Shakespeare, is also equally happy to have someone to talk with, since he has tried and failed for years to get his brother and cousins as interested in Shakespeare as he is.  For the next week, the two of them were practically inseparable, spending their days in the library or in the garden reading and discussing plays. Georgiana seems to think that her cousin is trying to let Mary explore the many types of plays that Shakespeare wrote, because after Hamlet, they moved onto Much Ado About Nothing, Henry V and A Midsummer Night's Dream.  In her letters Georgiana declared that Mary blossomed over that week. Georgiana also passed on something that Elizabeth told her, that she had rarely seen Mary so happy. Based on the reports from Georgiana (who included several of Elizabeth's observations), it certainly seems that Mary has developed feelings for Colonel Fitzwilliam. Whether these are the type of feelings that one would have for a friend or if these are something stronger, perhaps even love, I am not sure. As much as I was tempted to write to Georgiana and Elizabeth to urge caution, I am gratified that I did not. Interfering in the romances of others has caused me pain and difficulties in the past, and I decided not to meddle until I had an opportunity to observe matters personally. In a week I will see Mary herself and can ask her firsthand.  I would write more, but I have just noticed a slight tugging on my skirt. It seems that little Sam has awoken from his nap and wants to visit with "Cawo" as he calls me. So I will sign off for now and put my journal away before Sam spills anything on them. 
		 Chapter 8 Monday, December 12, 1814  What an interesting weekend this has been! This was the second anniversary of the wedding of Charles and Jane and Mr. Darcy and Elizabeth, so another party was held, this time at Pemberley. It seemed strange to be returning to the house I had longed to be mistress of at one time. In fact, I realized as we arrived on Friday that it had been over two years since I had last visited here! My previous visits had all been in the spring and summer and I always thought that the estate was at its most beautiful in the summer, but seeing the house decorated for Christmas, with snow on the ground may force me to change my views.  I journeyed to Pemberley from London with the Hursts. Edward, Louisa, Sam and I stopped at Foxchase for two days to stay with Charles and Jane. When we were there, we met with the Bennets, who had also stopped there. So it was quite a procession that left Foxchase on Friday morning. I rode in one carriage with Edward, Louisa and Sam. Mrs. Bennet was with Mary and Kitty in the Bennet's carriage and Mr. Bennet was with Charles, Jane and Fanny in Charles' carriage. Why Mr. Bennet chose to rode with Charles and Jane and not with his daughters puzzled me at first, but when Charles said that he had wanted to spend time with his granddaughter, I realized what Mr. Bennet was doing. He was not visiting Fanny. He was escaping from Mrs. Bennet!  The after dinner discussion amongst the ladies on Friday evening gave me a chance to catch up with all happenings amongst the other members of the family, especially Kitty and Mary. I had not seen them since we were together at Foxchase in October and I had not maintained my correspondence with them to the same degree as that with Georgiana. Both sisters appeared to be greatly nervous about something, but Elizabeth cleared up my confusion by whispering that she expected an engagement announcement for at least one sister before the weekend was over.  While we talked and played with Sam and Fanny, Mary and Kitty told us the news from Meryton and what their recent activities at Longbourn entailed. Mary has kept up her study of Shakespeare. After reading several more plays, she noticed a copy of Shakespeare's sonnets in her father's library and she set aside the plays to concentrate on the sonnets for a time. But Mary has not been alone in her reading. It seems that her sister, perhaps in anticipation of one day being a parson's wife, has embarked on a course of Scripture study. Kitty has decided that she will read the Bible cover to cover, although she did admit that she had to turn to Mary for aid in interpreting some particularly difficult passages.  The news that Mary had continued her examination of Shakespeare did not surprise her sisters, or Georgiana, but Kitty's attempts to improve her Scripture knowledge did seem to stun everyone, especially Elizabeth. We sat quietly for a moment or two and then Elizabeth (with what can only be described as a mischievous glint in her eye) asked, "Mary, why didn't you try to get Kitty to read Fordyce instead?" Kitty and Mary looked at one another and burst out laughing. While they laughed, the rest of us exchanged puzzled looks.  Finally, after a moment or two, the humor of the private joke they were sharing died down. Mary, between gasps of air, exclaimed, "But Lizzy, I did try to get her interested in Fordyce!" Kitty, who had collected herself a little better, added:  "I thought it best to read the Bible first, but one passage gave me so much trouble that I gave up in disgust! I then picked up Mary's Fordyce and began looking through it. After reading a few pages, the passage that was giving me difficulty seemed easy to understand by comparison. So now I keep it near me when I am studying. When I am having trouble with a particular verse, all I have to do is take a quick look at the cover of Fordyce and my determination to grasp the meaning of the verse is restored!"  After this little anecdote from Kitty, everyone glanced at Mary to see what her reaction would be. If Mary was offended by hearing one of her favorite volumes described in such fashion, she certainly did not show it. In fact, she seemed quite proud that her sister had decided to improve her mind.  We joined the gentlemen shortly after that and the rest of the evening passed by very quickly. As I lay in bed that night after I blew out my candle, I thought about Mary and Kitty and the fact that at least one of them would be engaged within a matter of days. Kitty reminded me of a little girl near Christmas--so full of excitement and anticipation that she might burst at any moment. Mary, on the other hand, was like a woman living in a dream who was afraid that one day she would wake up and find out that it had only been a fantasy. While Mary was certainly a woman in love (it was readily apparent whenever she spoke of Colonel Fitzwilliam), there was nevertheless, a sort of fear about her, like she was afraid of waking up and once again being the poor, plain, spinster Mary. Well, their beaus were expected tomorrow, so I could certainly observe the two couples and see if my conclusions were correct.  Saturday morning was uneventful. After the family had gathered for breakfast, we all went our separate ways. I wrote a few letters and played in the nursery with Sam for a short time. However, after about 30 or 40 minutes, Mrs. Bennet and Jane showed up to look in on Fanny. I can only take so much of Mrs. Bennet, (which seems peculiar, because I am growing increasingly fond of her daughters) so I made my excuses and escaped. I went in search of Georgiana, and found her in the library, reading a book.  Owing to our late arrival on Friday, we had not been able to have one of the private conversations that I have come to enjoy so much whenever we are together. She reminded me that Colonel Fitzwilliam (along with the rest of his family) and Mr. Medcalf were expected for lunch and that they would stay for the remainder of the day. Georgiana's mentioning of Mr. Medcalf alarmed me for a moment, but she does not appear to bear him or Kitty any ill will. In fact, I think her romantic nature is leading her (along with many of the other ladies in the house) to hope that Mr. Medcalf proposes in the near future. These hopes were equally fervent where her cousin the Shakespeare loving Colonel and Mary were concerned.  After talking at length about these two couples, we moved onto another one of Georgiana's cousins, Anne de Bourgh. I had been given (under rather strange circumstances I must add) the opportunity to meet Anne about four weeks previously and I was eager for news. However, for some inexplicable reason, my attention waned and my mind drifted back to the first time I had met Anne.  After our time at Foxchase, I had returned to London with Louisa and her family. We had been there about 10 days when we received word that the Darcys would be passing through London on their way to Kent. It turned out that Lady Catherine de Bourgh and her pastor Mr. Collins had become ill and died and that the Darcys were going to Kent to assist her daughter Anne with the arrangements and to render what aid they could to Mrs. Collins.  A further two weeks passed. Then, I received a note from Georgiana. Her cousin Anne and Mrs. Collins were in London, staying at the de Bourgh's London home. A previous appointment prevented Mr. Darcy and Elizabeth from accompanying Georgiana when she went calling. Would I like to go with her? I was a bit reluctant, since I had never met Miss de Bourgh and I knew Mrs. Collins as little more than a passing acquaintance. But I put these doubts aside and agreed to accompany Georgiana.  During our ride to the de Bourgh house, Georgiana told me what had happened in Kent. Evidently, a disease of some sort had been sweeping through the village near Rosings Park. Mr. Collins had become ill while tending to some of his parishioners. Although he had been very sick, he had insisted on paying his calls to Lady Catherine. In turn, Lady Catherine had also fallen ill. Anne had been sent to stay in the other wing of the house with the Collins' baby as the servants cared for Lady Catherine and Mrs. Collins looked after her husband.  Unfortunately, Lady Catherine and Mr. Collins both succumbed and Mrs. Collins fell ill. Upon hearing that Mrs. Collins was fighting the same illness that had taken her mother and Mr. Collins, Anne had announced that she would nurse Mrs. Collins personally, stating rather emphatically, if Georgiana is to be believed, that "Beth shall not be an orphan if there is anything that I can do to prevent it!" When her companion and the Rosings Park housekeeper had tried to keep her from going to the parsonage, they were told that they "Could get out of her way or be sacked."  These stories of Anne de Bourgh's courageous actions increased her stock in my mind, although I had still not met her. I had always been led to believe (by just about all her relatives whom I had met) that Anne was rather a sickly, quiet young lady. If the anecdotes Georgiana was telling were true, the description of Anne should be amended to include "brave".  The Darcy carriage drew up to the de Bourgh house and the footman opened the door and helped Georgiana and I out. A maid took our bonnets and cloaks once we were inside and the butler announced us before we entered the drawing room. Both ladies rose and set aside their sewing and Anne greeted us both warmly. Charlotte Collins also welcomed us, but did not say more than politeness and good manners dictated. I extended my condolences to both ladies, and they were politely received.  As has become my habit, I observed both the decor of the house (expensive, but in bad taste) and the dress and looks of the ladies as we entered. Anne and Charlotte were both dressed simply in black, but Charlotte looked like she had not recovered entirely from her illness.  We soon settled down and our conversation consisted of family news and what Charlotte and Anne's plans were for their stay in London. After perhaps 10 or 15 minutes, the door opened and a maid brought a child in. This was evidently the Beth I had heard about on the ride over. Ever since Sam was born, the mere sight of a baby reduces me to mush, so I got up from the sofa Georgiana and I were sitting on and crossed to the sofa that Charlotte sat on. We were soon engaged in a quiet conversation and I talked about Sam and Fanny and Charlotte told stories about Beth. Charlotte was a proud mother and Beth was a well-behaved child, but there seemed to be a sense of not only grief but also nervousness about Charlotte.  The time flew by and eventually it was time for Georgiana and I to take our leave. Once we were in the carriage, Georgiana asked what Charlotte and I had talked and I told her. In turn, I asked Georgiana what had been the subject of her conversation with Anne and was surprised when Georgiana answered "You!" After a brief pause to collect my thoughts I replied "Me?" Georgiana said that Anne had been in London long enough to realize that she had no idea of how to dress and act like a proper society lady. Georgiana had replied that much of her knowledge had come from Elizabeth and myself. This answer had evidently impressed Anne, because they had spent the rest of the visit talking about the efforts that had gone into making Georgiana a proper lady.  I was jerked back to the present by Georgiana asking, "Have you heard a word I have been saying?" I was forced to apologize and say that I had not and she began to repeat it. I learned that Anne and Charlotte were to spend Christmas at Pemberley and that Anne had specifically requested that Georgiana and Elizabeth take her into Lambton to go shopping. Anne had also asked Georgiana if a shopping trip in London was possible. I was on the verge of saying that I would be happy to join them when Louisa stuck her head in and announced that Colonel Fitzwilliam and his family were arriving.  Georgiana and I joined everyone in the drawing room to greet the new arrivals. Lord and Lady Matlock were a pleasant couple and it was humorous to watch the Colonel and Mary take quick glances at one another. It was obvious that they were trying not to be caught looking at one another and equally obvious that they were failing miserably! While everyone was being introduced to Lord and Lady Matlock, Mr. Medcalf was announced. He came striding into the room, and everything seemed to stop. Georgiana's description of him as a very handsome man was incredibly understated. Mr. Medcalf was one of the most handsome men I had ever seen! He was tall, with dark, curly hair and an amazing smile. After a few seconds, Georgiana gave me a nudge and I returned to my senses. If he proposed to Kitty, she would have a most handsome husband!  Lunch was a pleasant affair and the rest of Saturday was spent talking with Lord and Lady Matlock and Mr. Medcalf. I asked Lady Matlock about her son Matthew, whom I had remembered from the wedding. Lord Matthew was evidently abroad on a diplomatic mission, but was due to return by Christmas if his ship were not delayed. I later learned from Mr. Medcalf that his first name was Benjamin and that his family was from the Lake District where his father had a small estate. After dinner, when everyone had regrouped in the music room, I engaged in some most unladylike giggling with Georgiana and Elizabeth in the corner while Mary played a beautiful concerto on the piano and Kitty and Benjamin tried not to be caught staring at one another.  On Sunday afternoon, Mr. Darcy took Georgiana and I aside and asked us to stay away from the library for the rest of the afternoon. This was certainly a strange request, but Georgiana and I looked at one another, shrugged our shoulders and complied. Several hours later, I happened to be walking by the library when the door opened. Colonel Fitzwilliam paused in the doorway and as I passed I could see him shaking hands with Mr. Bennet. Both men were smiling. I hurried to the music room and breathlessly told Georgiana what I suspected had just happened. Perhaps an hour later, Georgiana needed something from her room. Evidently she must have made sure to pass the library, because when she returned she was very excited. She had witnessed a similar scene with Mr. Bennet and Mr. Medcalf.  Our suspicions were confirmed that night at dinner as Mr. Bennet rose to announce the engagements to the assembled family. Everyone was happy and the two couples were congratulated. I am truly very happy for the two couples, but nevertheless I felt a small twinge of jealousy as I listened to the announcement. Not so much that Kitty and Mary had become engaged to Mr. Medcalf and Colonel Fitzwilliam, but that they were soon to enter the world of married women while I remained behind.   Continued in Part 2 

Caroline's Journal 
By Chris

Part 1|Part 2|Part 3|

Chapter 9
Thursday, March 16, 1815

Let me jot down some recent events and they will help to bring tonight's events into context. After the double engagement of Kitty and Mary Bennet, everyone stayed on for several days at Pemberley in order to celebrate the anniversary of Charles and Jane and the Darcys. Eventually, everyone went their separate ways. The Matlocks returned to Matlock Park in order to prepare for Lord Matthew's arrival. Charles, Jane and Fanny returned to Foxchase, the Bennets to Longbourn and the Hursts and I to London. I had a pleasant enough Christmas with all the Hursts (George and Sarah came and visited) and I received long letters from Foxchase and Longbourn describing the celebrations that took place there. But the only letter that contained surprising news came from Georgiana. Apparently, Lord Matthew Fitzwilliam had safely returned from his journey with what his brother called a most unusual present for Lady Matlock -- a daughter-in-law!

According to Georgiana (who got the news express from the Colonel). Lord Matthew had been sent on a diplomatic mission to Brazil in order to discuss a treaty with the King of Portugal, who had fled there when the French invaded Portugal. While there, he spent a great deal of time with the family of one of the King's Brazilian advisors, D. Domingues. So it was only natural, given the amount of time that he spent with the family, that he fell in love with the family's eldest daughter and proposed. After a very short engagement (owing to his scheduled return to England) they were wed and took ship for home.

In her letter, Georgiana says that her cousin the Colonel must have enjoyed the humor of the first introduction. Evidently, he passed along only the roughest of descriptions of Lady Andrea, but he painted an exact picture of the scene. The family had risen (with what must have been expressions of utter confusion on their faces!) when the butler announced "Lord and Lady Fitzwilliam". After everyone stood rooted to the floor in shock for a moment or two, the one daughter in the house, Barbara moved to greet her new sister-in-law. Seeing Barbara take the lead in welcoming Lady Andrea gave the rest of the family the nudge they needed to get moving again. She was formally introduced and she quickly won over Lord and Lady Matlock and the Colonel.

Georgiana regretted that she did not have more details about Lady Andrea to send to me in her Christmas letter, but she noted that she was going to stay at Matlock Hall for New Year's Day. She promised to give me a better description of the newest addition to her family when they met. By Twelfth Night, I had my letter with a complete portrait of Lady Andrea. Georgiana noted that Lady Andrea was about 24, a couple of inches over five feet tall with black hair and dark eyes. She added that Lady Andrea's skin was darker than most English ladies (Georgiana compared it to a dark tan). Lady Andrea spoke English, French and Italian along with her native Portuguese, was a good piano player, but that her true love was drawing (Georgiana spent a good portion of her letter telling me about the exquisite sketches of Lady Andrea's home in Brazil that she was shown). As far as Lady Andrea's personality, Georgiana said that she combined Elizabeth's liveliness with Jane's kindness and Charlotte Collins' common sense.

Early and mid January were relatively uneventful in London. I kept busy with my social activities, but the engagements did not bring me the same sort of joy that an afternoon spent with Sam or writing letters did. Georgiana spent much of early January at Matlock Hall and her letters were filled with her impressions of Lady Andrea, a lady who certainly seems to have pleased not only Georgiana but her new in-laws as well.

By early February, my schedule moved towards getting ready for Kitty Bennet's wedding that was to take place on Valentine's Day at Meryton. My original intentions had been to travel with Louisa, Edward and Sam like I always did. These plans ran into difficulty when first Sam and then Louisa caught a mild but nevertheless persistent cold. Edward was of course reluctant to leave them, and an unexpected business problem gave him an excuse to stay in London.

I was on the verge of writing to the Bennets to tell them I was unable to attend when Charlotte came up with a solution that allowed me to be present at the wedding. Charlotte had intended to journey to Meryton with Anne de Bourgh prior to the wedding in order to visit her family. Lucas Lodge, Charlotte informed me, had plenty of extra rooms and finding a place to me would pose no difficulty at all.

My stay at Lucas Lodge was pleasant enough. I found Sir William's cheerfulness to be a bit irritating at times, but I enjoyed Lady Lucas's company very much. In fact, the more I spoke with Lady Lucas, the more she reminded me of Charlotte. If Maria had her father's cheerfulness as the key part of her personality, Charlotte had her mother's common sense and level headed thinking.

As had become my practice, I went for a walk every morning after breakfast. I was a bit surprised when Anne asked if she might join me. I thought that the poor health that I had always been told of would prevent her from such physical undertakings. Anne must have read my mind, since she told me that her doctor in London wanted her to walk everyday to improve her health. Anne admitted that at first, she had been unable to go very far, but that as the weeks had passed, she had improved and that she looked forward to her walk. We asked Charlotte if she knew of a path that might suit our purposes, and she pointed out one that led to Meryton. Anne and I fetched our bonnets and our cloaks and we tramped to the village.

While we were there, we encountered a similarly attired Elizabeth and Georgiana. I expressed my surprise at meeting them, Elizabeth rolled her eyes and Georgiana covered her mouth to keep from giggling. Neither one of them said a word, and yet I knew they were in Meryton to escape Mrs. Bennet. Anne asked Elizabeth a few questions about the village, and Elizabeth pointed out a few shops where Anne would be able to get anything she might need during her stay. After perhaps fifteen or twenty minutes, we parted and Anne and I returned to Lucas Lodge.

The wedding was a simple affair, held at the same church where Elizabeth and Jane had been married. I remembered that wedding and my wish that God would strike Elizabeth dead. The memory of that thought chilled me. Had I actually been so filled with hatred for another person? I was spared from examining that thought any more by the opening notes of the wedding march. Everyone stood and turned to look at Kitty as she made her way up the aisle on her father's arm. She looked magnificent in her neat but elegant dress. I could not help smiling as I compared the bride's calm even serene face with the nervous expression on that of the groom. The ceremony itself was error-free, although the groom's nervousness had me on the verge of giggling on several occasions.

After the wedding breakfast the happy couple departed for London, where they were to spend a week at the Darcys' townhouse. (I had heard from Georgiana that this had been the cause of a minor argument between Mr. Darcy and Mr. Medcalf, with the latter not wanting to take advantage of his patron's kindness and the patron insisting that he do just that!)

Two or three days after the wedding, there was an assembly at the Meryton Assembly rooms. I was reluctant to go, but Georgiana and Anne insisted that I attend, so I eventually agreed to be a member of their party. The dancing started soon after we arrived, and although I had not intended to dance, several gentlemen, including two of Charlotte's brothers asked me. (I must admit that I was a bit suspicious when I saw Georgiana and Anne conversing with Charlotte, who then spoke with her brothers, but I decided not to complain about it). It was nice, I decided, to have friends that truly cared about my welfare. I enjoyed my dances, although none of my partners was as skilled as Mr. Darcy.

A week after Kitty's wedding, I returned to London with Anne and Charlotte. The next two weeks were fairly quiet. The only activities worth mentioning were two shopping trips with Georgiana, Anne and Charlotte. Anne it seemed was determined to improve a wardrobe that had languished for years while she lived with her mother. She was still in mourning, which of course limited her choices severely, but we managed to find several dresses that she could wear while walking or paying calls.

I had just returned from the second of these two shopping trips and sat down by the fire with a new book when Louisa showed me an invitation that had arrived in my absence. The invitation, judging by the quality of the paper, was from someone truly important. I glanced at Louisa, hoping she would tell me what the contents were, but she gestured that I should read it for myself. I did so, and was astonished to see that Lord and Lady Matlock had invited Louisa, Edward and I to a party in less than 10 days!

My amazement at being invited to such an event continued until the next morning, when a note arrived from Georgiana. Lord Matthew and Lady Andrea were in London and the Matlocks were determined to give Lady Andrea a proper introduction into London society. I was still a bit puzzled at why I had been invited, but I suspect that Georgiana or Anne had persuaded their aunt to include me on the guest list.

The Matlock's party brought about yet another shopping trip as Anne, Georgiana, Elizabeth and I returned to a dressmaker who Anne had decided to patronize. Anne quickly found a design for a dress in mourning colors, but the rest of us spent most of the morning looking at designs. We eventually all found designs and colors we liked and Georgiana chose white and Elizabeth selected pink. My new dress was to be in a dark green and I was quite excited about it.

The day of the party itself arrived all too quickly. All day, I began to get more and more nervous, but I did not have the faintest idea why. I had been to dozens of balls and parties. Why should this one be any different? Edward wisely stayed as far away from me as he could, but I eventually got so apprehensive that Louisa was forced to calm me down.

When we got to the Matlock's townhouse, I was surprised to see Charles' carriage pull up just behind ours. We were able to walk in together and Charles and Jane were just in front of us in the receiving line. I thought that Lord Matlock was a handsome, distinguished looking gentleman, and Lady Matlock reminded me a great deal of her son, the Colonel. As I moved on down the line, I could see Lord Matthew and Lady Andrea. Lady Andrea certainly was the beauty that Georgiana said that she was, and her dark blue dress looked splendid on her. Lord Matthew could have been his brother's twin. Except for the fact that the Colonel was slightly taller and had fair hair (Matthew's was dark), the brothers looked exactly alike.

As we finished with the receiving line, I stepped into the room and quickly glanced about. I could see Georgiana and Anne speaking with Mary and Kitty. I made my way over to them and we spoke pleasantly for several minutes. Soon Mr. Medcalf came to get Kitty and Mary's arm was taken by her fiancÈe. It seemed that both men were intent on making some introductions and mingling with their wife or fiancÈe on their arm.

I parted with Anne and Georgiana and made my way around the room. I stopped to speak with people I recognized, but mostly I just wandered about nodding to whomever I made eye contact with. After fifteen minutes, I felt someone touch my arm. I turned and saw that Lady Adrienne Jackson evidently wished to speak with me. Adrienne and I had gone to school together and several years before we had been very close. Unlike me, she had succeeded in finding a rich husband. But I did not pity either one of them. Sir Thomas Jackson was middle-aged and not particularly handsome and Adrienne had always been a bit too "forward". She was also a gossip (Mrs. Bennet was hopelessly outclassed by her!).

She leaned over to whisper something in my ear as she extended her arm and pointed her fan at someone I could not see. "Who is that young lady in black speaking to Lord Matthew Fitzwilliam? And who is the other young lady? Is she the foreigner who tricked him into marriage?" As soon as I heard the words "lady in black" I had turned to find out whom she was referring to. It was Anne, who stood speaking with Lord Matthew and Lady Andrea.

I could feel the anger beginning to boil within me. I gripped her forearm, hoping that she would take it as I sign to stop speaking. Fortunately, she did so, and I hissed "Come with me!" I glanced about the room hoping to see an exit that led to a place where we could speak privately. I saw a door on the far side of the room and I headed in that direction followed by Adrienne. We found ourselves in a small hallway and a quick look around revealed a small sitting room. We entered the room and I made sure that we were alone. I then turned to face Adrienne.

"The young lady in black is a friend of mine named Anne de Bourgh. She is wearing black because she is in mourning. Her mother has recently died! As for the foreigner, as you so snidely refer to her, she at least is the daughter of a nobleman. Her father is an advisor to a king. Your father can not say that he has ever advised anyone, except perhaps on what type of goods to buy!"

I saw that my remark about her father had touched a nerve. Like me, she was the daughter of a merchant. In marrying a rich man, she seemed to have forgotten her origins and taken on the airs of a vain gentlewoman. She clearly did not like to be reminded of her ancestry.

"But Caroline . . ." Adrienne began. She never got a chance to finish whatever she was going to say because I interrupted her. I could see from the look on her face and the surprised tone of her voice that she was going to remind me that I had once held similar opinions. Just thinking about my past made me feel ashamed.

"Adrienne, if I ever hear you speaking poorly about the Darcys, the Fitzwilliams or the Bennet sisters again, Sir Thomas will receive a very revealing letter." Upon hearing this, Adrienne's mouth dropped open and she turned as white as a ghost. The look in her eyes said you wouldn't! I continued, "Yes I know all about Major Marcus Simpson. Sir Thomas has a great deal of influence. A few words in the right ear and your friend will be spending Christmas in India or some other far away place." The words had barely left my lips when a clearly horrified Adrienne pushed past me, threw open the door and hurried down the hall.

I could feel the beginnings of a satisfied smile on my lips as I reentered the room I had left Georgiana and Anne in. Georgiana was there, with an impatient look on her face. "Where have you been? It's time to eat!" I nodded and she asked, "Who was that woman you were talking with? She looked terribly upset about something!" I replied, telling Georgiana that Adrienne was an old school friend who had told me something about a mutual acquaintance from our school days. Georgiana did not appear to completely believe my answer, but she did not press for details.

The meal was fairly pleasant. I was seated between Edward and Mr. Darcy and I enjoyed my conversation with both of them. Lady Andrea, who sat across from me, also spoke with me. She asked me about Adrienne (apparently many people had seen us together) and I told her about my schoolmate. After hearing about Adrienne, Lady Andrea nodded and leaned over to Lord Matthew and whispered something. Mary, who was sitting on the other side of Lord Matthew, must have heard it, because she quickly covered her mouth with her napkin. I could tell that she was trying to keep from giggling and when she had regained her composure, she looked at me and mouthed "later".

After dinner, the party moved to the music room. Louisa, Elizabeth and Georgiana all played for us. Lady Andrea played as well, but it took some coaxing from Lord Matthew and Lady Matlock. I was a bit surprised when Mary politely declined to play and I took advantage of her not playing by asking her what Lady Andrea had whispered. Mary grinned and said that Lady Andrea had called Adrienne a "tamandua" (I think I have spelled the word, right) which is the word for "anteater" in Portuguese. Mary explained what an anteater was and said that she would show me a picture when I called on the Darcys in the morning. I thought about the description of an anteater that Mary had given me and I remembered that Adrienne did have a big nose. For the rest of the evening, just whispering to myself "anteater" made me giggle.

Eventually, the party ended and I rode home with Louisa and Edward. We did not speak much about the party and it was not until I got to my room and my maid asked me while she was helping me with my dress that I gave the matter some serious thought. She stood behind me and I could see in the mirror that she expected an answer so I said:

"I cannot remember when I have been so furious! I have just returned from a party where I have been forced to listen to people I hold in high regard insulted in the worst manner. To make matters even more galling, the insults came from someone who I at one time considered one of my closest friends!"

My maid Amelia still stood behind me and I could see her in the mirror. She was apparently thinking about something. After a moment or two, she nodded, as though she had finished with whatever she was thinking about. She asked if I needed anything else and I told her that I did not. Amelia quietly slipped out of the room and I got into bed. As I blew out the candle, I whispered "anteater" again and I sank back onto the pillows chuckling.


Chapter 10
Friday, August 18, 1815

I feel as though a great weight has been lifted from my shoulders and from my heart. I know this will sound strange, since the events which have troubled me these past few months have had nothing to do directly with me. In fact, I did not even witness most of the occurrences that have caused me this distress. Most of my knowledge about this entire affair has come from letters from Charles and other eyewitnesses.

However, in order for these events to be better understood, we must journey back several months to Pemberley. Last December, as you well know, both Mary and Kitty Bennet became engaged--Kitty to Mr. Benjamin Medcalf, the vicar at Kympton and Mary to Georgiana's cousin, Colonel Fitzwilliam. Kitty and Mr. Medcalf were married on Valentine's Day, while Mary and the Colonel were forced to endure a rather longer wait. They had originally planned to be married on June 1, but unforeseen complications caused a delay.

The chief of these unforeseen complications was the return of Napoleon from Elba in March. By April, the allied nations (Britain, Russia, Prussia and Austria) had determined their strategy for opposing him and the Duke of Wellington was forming a British army in Belgium. Thousands of soldiers were sent to Belgium and among those chosen was the Colonel, who was to join the Duke's staff by mid May.

This news came as quite a shock to Mary, who was in the midst of planning the wedding. Not surprisingly, she advocated getting married immediately with a special license. According to Georgiana and Elizabeth, who witnessed part of the scene and later got all of the details from both parties, the Colonel reluctantly refused to do so. His worry was that if they were married and he was killed, he would have made her a widow "before the ink was dry", as Georgiana quoted him. Elizabeth wrote that Mary seemed to accept this argument with a heavy heart but that there was a look of fear in her eyes. I could guess what that fear was--fear that he would be killed before he could marry her. Fear that he would die and the wonderful dream that she had lived would die with him.

Although I had not seen Mary before she left London to return to Longbourn, the description that I had received frightened me. I wrote to Jane, Elizabeth and Kitty asking that they pass on whatever news they obtained from Longbourn or Mary. I could not explain exactly why, but I suspected that as Mary became more and more concerned about the Colonel's safety, she would draw more and more into herself. Keeping all her pain and fears to herself would not do her any good.

Therefore, I was not tremendously surprised when I received a short note from Georgiana in early June that said that she was accompanying Elizabeth and Mr. Darcy to Longbourn, where they would meet Charles, Jane and Fanny. Evidently, Mary's "increasingly erratic behavior" had frightened Mr. Bennet enough that he had written to his daughters pleading them to come home to try and help him with Mary. Georgiana's brief missive gave no hints as to what this "erratic behavior" was, so I was forced to wait for her next letter for further information.

I was a bit startled when Georgiana came calling about eight days after she had dispatched her note. I was a bit puzzled as to why she would be in London while her brother was still in Hertfordshire. She revealed why she was in London quickly enough. Quite simply, staying in the same house with Mrs. Bennet had been too much for her. Mrs. Bennet, it seemed was quite fond of mentioning "my dear Lydia's husband" at every opportunity. Georgiana had thought she had put Mr. Wickham firmly behind her, but Mrs. Bennet's continual reference to his name had gotten to her after two or three days. She had gone to her brother begging to be sent to London and the two of them had successfully come up with an excuse that got her out of the house. Georgiana had arrived in London the evening before and had quickly settled in at the de Bourgh house where she was staying with Anne and Charlotte.

The news that Mrs. Bennet's behavior had driven Georgiana away did not come as a complete surprise, but Georgiana did bring back further information on what Mary's "erratic behavior" had been. Mary had taken to sitting by the fire for hours, not saying a word, even when asked a direct question. She would disappear for hours at a time during the daylight, silently slipping away, returning just in time for tea. Georgiana said that she and Elizabeth had been a bit surprised that Mr. Bennet had not tried to see where Mary went every day. So, on the third day Georgiana had been there, she and Elizabeth had followed Mary at a distance. They had noticed that she entered the church, so they turned back confident that they had answered one of their questions about Mary.

That night at dinner, I related Georgiana's news to Edward and Louisa and was a bit surprised when Edward asked if there was any way he could help. He must have recognized the puzzled look on my face, because I must admit that the offer had rendered me temporarily speechless. He pointed out that while his contacts through his business affairs and his clubs were not as varied as Charles' or Mr. Darcy's they should provide him with the latest news of what was happening in Belgium, adding that his brother George's contacts would widen the net even further. I must admit that I was touched that Edward would make such a generous offer to aid someone that he barely knew and I gratefully accepted his offer.

The next morning I sent an express to Charles telling him of the offer made by Edward and passing on Georgiana's intelligence about where Mary was going on her solitary walks. I suspected that Elizabeth had quietly alerted the family in case they needed to find Mary in a hurry, but I told Charles anyway.

On June 20, I received an alarming express from Charles. Mary had not eaten anything nor slept for three days (from June 16 to 18). She seemed to totally withdraw from any contact whatsoever. Whereas before, she would at least acknowledge one's presence with a nod or a glance if spoken to, she ignored people now, even her own parents. It was as though, Charles noted, that she was consumed with some sort of inner struggle, or was trying to affect some far away struggle through sheer will power.

He further reported that she only left the house to visit the church and that she had not returned on the afternoon of the 17th. Charles, Mr. Darcy and Mr. Bennet had gone down to the church to see if she was there. They found her kneeling at the alter, praying. Mr. Bennet had wanted to approach her, but Charles and Mr. Darcy restrained him. Charles said that Mr. Darcy had argued quite forcefully that Mary would not welcome such interference. Mr. Bennet nodded in agreement and the three men took turns sitting in the back of the church watching her. Charles said that he was a little embarrassed when the vicar found him dozing in one of the back pews the next morning when he came to prepare for the Sunday morning services. Mary did not seem to notice or care however, and when she left the church, Charles was able to make his excuses to the vicar and follow her back to Longbourn.

It was with a strange mix of worry and relief Charles commented that the family watched Mary faint from hunger and weariness. Mr. Bennet was able to catch her before she slid completely out of her chair. He and Mr. Darcy carefully carried her upstairs as Elizabeth and Jane tried to calm a hysterical Mrs. Bennet.

By the afternoon of the 20th, Mary had begun to recover physically from her ordeal, but her spirit had not been so fortunate. According to Charles, she still had that haunted look that had so troubled everyone earlier. It troubled them so much in fact; that it was with a great deal of reluctance that Mr. Bennet quietly told her the news of a battle in Belgium that had occurred four days previously. Charles attempted to get Mr. Bennet to tell him what Mary's reaction had been, but her reaction had evidently so puzzled her father that he only murmured "She nodded as if she knew already".

On the morning of the 22nd, all London was abuzz. We soon found out what the reason for all this excitement was. The first dispatch from Wellington, with news of a great victory on the 18th, had arrived the night before and The Times had printed it in that morning's edition. I'm not sure how Edward managed to obtain two copies of the newspaper, but somehow, he did. Louisa and I immediately cut the article out of one copy and forwarded it to Longbourn with a short note. While we were happy to forward the piece from The Times , we were a bit reluctant to forward any of the rumors that had begun to circulate about casualties, which were believed to be very heavy. It was only when the rumors persisted for several days, with more and more details being added, that Louisa and I decided to mention them in our daily missive to Charles.

The letter that first revealed the unofficial reports of casualties was one of the most difficult pieces of correspondence, if not the most difficult, that I have ever written. Louisa and I worked on it for hours, and we soon had the desk cluttered with discarded drafts. We eventually chose to pass onto to Charles all the stories that were circulating in London. However, we emphasized that none of the anecdotes about casualties had been confirmed yet, although at least one story said that casualties on Wellington's staff had been heavy and that at least two staff officers had been mortally wounded.

When I sent the letter, it was my belief, I guess, that the news about staff officer casualties at Waterloo would be broken to Mary gently, much like the news about Quatre Bras had been. Unfortunately, she learned in a much more dramatic fashion. Shortly after the express had arrived, Mary had been passing the library door with Elizabeth and Jane. When she heard the gentlemen discussing the letter and how to break the news to her she stopped to listen. Jane attempted to pull her away, but Mary gripped her arm so tightly that Elizabeth saw Jane wince. Then she turned to her sisters and quietly, but emphatically said, "I must hear this!" The three sisters stood by the door, but when the gentlemen began to talk about the staff officers casualties, Mary tottered and would have fallen had Elizabeth not moved to support her. Elizabeth and Jane helped Mary upstairs and got her back into bed. Jane then made her way to the library to tell the gentlemen that Mary had overheard much of their discussion and that she had taken to her bed again.

Mary remained in bed for several days, eating little, saying almost nothing and spending most of the time looking out the window with what Charles described as the most anguished face he had ever seen. Four days after Mary had returned to bed, Longbourn received two most unusual visitors. The Fitzwilliams, Lady Andrea and Lord Matthew arrived unexpectedly and Lady Andrea was soon upstairs for a private visit with Mary.

Lady Andrea remained upstairs for over an hour while Lord Matthew stayed down in the drawing room with the rest of the family. After fifteen or twenty minutes, Jane and Elizabeth could see that Lord Matthew was becoming annoyed with their mother's incessant questions. Jane suggested that Mr. Bennet show Lord Matthew the grounds. Charles and Mr. Darcy decided to join them, and the gentlemen slipped out into the garden.

Once they were outside, Lord Matthew acquainted them with the latest news, both from London and from the rest of the family. (Mr. Darcy had written several letters, but Lord Matthew's replies had not contained much family news). Mr. Darcy asked why Lord Matthew had suddenly decided to visit and he looked puzzled when Lord Matthew burst into laughter. Everyone patiently waited for Lord Matthew to stop laughing and he explained why he and Lady Andrea were there.

Mr. Darcy's letters from Longbourn had been eagerly anticipated at the Fitzwilliam's London home, since Lady Andrea and Mary had become close since their meeting in March. Although they had only met once, they had corresponded frequently. Due to Mary's desire for new knowledge, some of the correspondence had even been in Portuguese, since Mary wanted to become fluent in the language. Lady Andrea's concern for her friend heightened, as Mr. Darcy's descriptions of her became increasingly bleak. The first rumors of casualties had made her mind up. (It seemed that the Fitzwilliams had been among the first to hear about Wellington's staff).

Lady Andrea had announced her intentions of visiting Longbourn and when Lord Matthew protested, she had informed him that he could stay behind if he liked, but that she was going. After a rather feeble protest on Lord Matthew's part about the propriety of a woman traveling alone, he agreed to accompany her. Hearing that they were staying at the inn in Meryton, Mr. Bennet offered them a room at Longbourn, but Lord Matthew politely declined. He did say that he had accepted Mrs. Bennet's kind invitation to dinner.

Charles reported that he and Mr. Darcy were pleasantly surprised to see Mary at the dinner table. She still looked quite haggard, but she spoke with everyone. Most of her conversation was with Lord Matthew and Lady Andrea however. When the gentlemen retired to the library after the meal, Lord Matthew told stories about his journey to Brazil and the ladies asked Lady Andrea questions about her home.

Elizabeth and Jane had made Mary promise to tell them about her visit from Lady Andrea, since something had occurred during that visit to improve her spirits. So after everyone had retired for the night, the sisters gathered in Mary's room and she told them about her conversation with Lady Andrea.

Mary reminded her sisters that Lady Andrea's family had powerful connections in Brazil. Her father was an advisor to the King of Portugal and he was a successful landowner in his own right, although Lady Andrea's eldest brother, Alberto, handled much of the estate business. Several years before Lord Matthew's journey to Brazil, Alberto was required to return to Portugal on family business. He sailed from Rio de Janeiro, on a ship bound for Lisbon. The ship never arrived in Lisbon and was presumed to have sunk with all aboard.

The news of the ship's loss struck Lady Andrea's mother, Dona Domingues particularly hard. Court business kept Dom. Domingues busy, but his wife sat at home, surrounded by memories of her son and the grief ate into her as her daughters watched, unable to aid her. Months later, a miracle happened. A ship from Lisbon brought a letter from Alberto.

His ship had been sunk in a storm and he had been the only survivor. A British warship rescued him and took him to Gibraltar. The ship that rescued Alberto had been badly damaged in a second storm and it was forced to undergo repairs before it could sail for Lisbon. The warship finally left Gibraltar with the convoy it was supposed to escort, only to suffer further storm damage that required a return to Gibraltar. Eventually, over two months after his arrival in Gibraltar, Alberto reached Lisbon safely.

Lady Andrea's story provided a much-needed boost to Mary's spirits. The Fitzwilliams remained in Meryton for a week and they visited Longbourn every day. The gentlemen went out shooting on several occasions and Mary and Lady Andrea often sat in the garden practicing their languages. However, it was a rainy day when the ladies were all sitting in the music room listening to Elizabeth play when Mary finally received good news.

Mrs. Hill interrupted Elizabeth to ask Mary to come to the library, since her father wished to speak with her. Jane reported that Mary paled, but slowly rose and went to the library. Within five minutes she came running back into the music room shrieking. Elizabeth noted that she and Jane were too astonished to speak, so Lady Andrea was the first to ask Mary what the matter was. Mary danced about the room waving a letter repeating over and over, "He's Alive! " After three or four circuits of the room, Jane caught her and they embraced. Elizabeth and Lady Andrea embraced Mary as well and then she excused herself to find Mrs. Bennet.

I was delighted to hear from Charles that my letter about the casualty lists had made Mary so happy.

The crisis having passed, Charles and Jane and Mr. Darcy and Elizabeth were able to return home. Several weeks passed and I received a letter from Georgiana, who had returned to Pemberley, that Colonel Fitzwilliam, taking advantage of the lull afforded him by the occupation of Paris, had tried to catch up with his correspondence. Georgiana reported that Mr. Darcy had received a missive from the Colonel. She had also heard from Lady Andrea that Mary had received a long letter from the Colonel saying that he would be bringing dispatches home to London in the near future. He must have written to nearly all his relatives, because I called on Anne the same day that Georgiana's letter arrived, and she had also been the recipient of a communication from her cousin.

Later in July, I was paying a call on Anne when a most interesting visit took place. We were in the drawing room when the butler announced that Anne had two more visitors. Anne looked confused and she asked the butler who they were. The butler replied "Colonel Fitzwilliam and Lieutenant Colonel Sir James Passmore." Anne of course expressed delight at seeing her cousin again, but asked me if I had heard of the other gentleman. I was forced to admit that I had not.

The gentlemen were shown in. Colonel Fitzwilliam immediately crossed the room to Anne, who had risen from the sofa, and embraced her. After they parted, he introduced his companion, an officer in the Life Guards who had been wounded at Waterloo and had resigned his commission so that he might take up the management of his estate. I sat near Anne and listened to her conversation with her cousin. She was moving about on the sofa a good deal, so I paid no attention to a slight nudge I felt after the gentlemen had been there about fifteen minutes. A not so subtle elbow to the ribs soon followed and I turned to look at Anne. She tilted her head and I looked in the direction that she indicated. Charlotte had resumed her previous seat in one of the armchairs near the fire with Beth in her lap. Sir James (who I would describe as a tall, broad-shouldered man with dark brown hair and a pleasant face) sat across from her and he seemed to be conversing with her quite energetically. I turned to look at Anne and was amused by the raised eyebrow and the slight smile on her lips.

I continued to look at Charlotte and Sir James occasionally, but my attention was torn between them and the two cousins. I found myself listening to the Colonel and Anne again when Anne mentioned Mary. I turned to see that the Colonel had paled slightly, as if he was bracing himself for bad news. I hastened to add that Charles had reported she was well, but that she had suffered a good deal in his absence. The Colonel paled a bit more, but Anne opined that the best restorative for her would be to see the man she loved again. The color returned to Colonel Fitzwilliam's face as he nodded and smiled broadly. He announced to Sir James that they were leaving. Anne and I noticed with great interest that it was with some reluctance that Sir James departed. The fact that he stopped in the doorway to turn and speak with Charlotte once more was something we found especially intriguing.

The Colonel must have gone straight to Hertfordshire after leaving Sir James at his lodgings. Within 4 days we received a wedding announcement stating that Colonel Michael Fitzwilliam and Miss Mary Bennet were to be united at the church in Meryton on August 18th. So once again I find myself ensconced at Lucas Lodge writing of a Bennet wedding. This has been a happy day indeed!


Chapter 11
Wednesday, December 13, 1815

How very trying these past few weeks have been. The fall was one social disaster after another. All my London acquaintances commented that I seemed to be in a permanently foul mood. They are correct of course. I have been cross for over two months now. Even Sam noticed that something was wrong. God bless my little nephew. He's much too young to understand the cause of my anger, but he realizes that I do need cheering up.

I've looked at the first paragraph for this entry and realized that it's not quite true. I haven't been incensed for every moment of the last two months. For some of them I have actually been quite calm. At other times I have been incredibly afraid, but not of another person. I have been afraid of myself, of my temper and my ability to lash out and hurt someone.

This entry is getting more and more confusing. I should have remembered Papa's advice when I sat down to write this entry. "Begin at the beginning" he used to remind me whenever I tried to tell him a story. I will do just that and start this entry at the beginning of the story where I should have.

The summer or what was left of it after Mary and the Colonel were married, was quiet enough. Instead of returning to London after the ceremony, we went to Foxchase. It is always nice to escape the London heat. We spent a pleasant two weeks there with Charles and Jane and Fanny. As I grow older, I begin to appreciate the importance of family. This is not to say that I shunned my relatives in the past. Louisa and I have always been close. It is just that I have begun to understand Papa's teachings about family that I paid little attention to all those years ago.

Edward's business affairs necessitated our return to London in early September. As we sat in the carriage, Louisa and I talked about our stay at Foxchase. The Darcys had called several times, spending one weekend, but dining there on other occasions. They had also brought happy news. Elizabeth was expecting a child early in the new year. Mr. Darcy had fairly beamed with pride and Elizabeth also looked pleased. Georgiana was almost giddy with anticipation. Talk of children brought us to Sam, who sat dozing in Edward's lap. He and Fanny had enjoyed each other's company. Sam had been distressed that Fanny could not run as well as he could, but they liked playing on the floor of the drawing room.

September was uneventful. The only things worth mentioning at all were the letters I received and the calls I made. Georgiana wrote from Pemberley, giving me all the details of what was happening there. Mr. Darcy was fussing over Elizabeth. So much so that it was beginning to annoy Elizabeth. Kitty had settled in nicely as the rector's wife at Kympton and had become very popular with the parishioners. Georgiana also added a bit of intelligence from Lady Andrea. Colonel Fitzwilliam had been ordered to Gibraltar. His orders had originally been for Bermuda, but had been changed at the last moment. My thoughts turned to Mary. She would go with him, but would she be happy? This was the life she had chosen for herself, but would it fit? I must admit that I cannot see myself in her shoes.

As far as my social activities were concerned, the only ones that gave me any sense of excitement were my calls on Anne and Charlotte. I was particularly interested to see if Sir James Passmore had come calling again. When I first called at the de Bourgh house shortly after my return to London, he had not, and I think that Anne's romantic tendencies were more disappointed than Charlotte herself. It was two weeks before I was able to visit again. Sir James had called the day before I visited and when Charlotte left the room to check on Beth, Anne and I were able to talk for a few minutes. According to Anne, Sir James appeared to admire Charlotte greatly, but she was extremely cautious around him. So cautious, Anne argued that she might drive him away.

September ended and October began. For the first two weeks, little happened. I wrote to Elizabeth, asking her questions about Charlotte and her life with Mr. Collins. Elizabeth's answers, particularly the ones about how Charlotte became Mrs. Collins, gave me a greater understanding of Charlotte and I was able to calm Anne's fears somewhat. But I could understand what Anne and Charlotte were both thinking. Charlotte's marriage had not been one of love, but one of convenience. She had married to gain all the advantages of matrimony but one -- affection. I could remember thinking about what I would do if I had been in Charlotte's place. I would give up almost anything I resolved, but love. If I ever married, it would be for that reason.

The next time I called on Anne and Charlotte, I had little time to think about love, Sir James or anything else. I had only entered the drawing room when Anne's butler announced there was someone here with an urgent message for her. I turned to see who it was and I recognized one of the footmen from the Darcy's London townhouse. He apologized profusely for interrupting us and held out his message for Anne. Anne read it quickly and passed it to Charlotte. I watched, growing increasingly concerned as Charlotte's face assumed the same anxious expression as Anne's and the footman. After a long moment I asked what was wrong. Charlotte and Anne glanced at each other for a moment and Anne gave a slight nod. Charlotte's arm extended and I took the note from her hand.

I quickly studied it, recognizing Georgiana's handwriting and, judging by her obvious haste, the importance of the contents. My hand flew to my mouth as I saw the key portion of the missive. Early that morning, Elizabeth had lost her baby and Georgiana, the butler and the housekeeper were growing increasingly concerned not only for Elizabeth, but for Mr. Darcy as well. Could Anne and Charlotte come at once?

I folded the paper and handed it back to Anne. I walked out into the hall to ask the butler to send for my carriage. I jumped as I felt someone touch my arm. I turned to see Anne at my elbow, asking why I was leaving. I stammered out a reply--something to the effect of not wanting to intrude on a private family moment. "Nonsense!" Charlotte snorted. "If we are with Mr. Darcy and Elizabeth, whose shoulder will Georgiana cry on?" I frowned. I was still reluctant to go with them, but I allowed Anne's butler to send my carriage home, with a note to Louisa explaining the situation.

We said little as Anne's carriage took us to the Darcy townhouse. I think that each of us was lost in our own thoughts and concerns. I doubt that more than two dozen words were spoken during the entire journey. We soon arrived at the Darcy's and Charlotte and Anne hurried inside, leaving me standing by the carriage. I remained there a moment, trying to muster the courage to follow them up the stairs and into the house. The sight of the housekeeper standing in the doorway, looking at me jolted me back into the present and I made my way up to the house. The housekeeper took my cloak and told me that Georgiana was in the music room. I hurried down the hall to see her.

It was obvious that she had been crying. I sat beside her on the sofa, not really knowing what to say. Thankfully, Georgiana merely wanted someone to talk to. Mr. Darcy it seemed, had split his time between trying to comfort Elizabeth and sitting in a rage in his dressing room, frightening anyone who came near him, even Georgiana and their housekeeper, who had been with the family almost 20 years. After perhaps 45 minutes, Georgiana appeared to be much improved. She excused herself and said that she would return as quickly as possible. I moved to the piano bench and examined the pieces of music that were lying upon the piano. Ten minutes elapsed, and having grown restless once I had perused Georgiana's new music, I went in search of her. I had an idea which direction she had gone in and I moved in that direction.

As I walked along the hallway, I passed several open doors. I stopped for a moment and peered inside each room, trying to see Georgiana. Soon I came to the library. The door was closed, but I thought Georgiana might be inside. I opened it and stepped in, crossing about half the distance to the fireplace. Suddenly a figure moved in one of the armchairs by the fire and an arm reached out to place a glass next to a half empty bottle on a small table. The person in the armchair turned and I could see that it was not Georgiana, but Mr. Darcy.

I stood in the middle of the room and we watched each other for a long moment. I studied his face and saw the emotions that seemed to play across it simultaneously. Exhaustion appeared to be the most obvious, but sadness and anger were also visible. Then I realized that I had disturbed his privacy. My own experience had taught me that alcohol would not ease the pain for long, but I chose not to voice that opinion. I decided to quietly leave the room and tell the servants to watch him carefully. I hastily apologized for disturbing him and hurried towards the door. I had taken about two steps when his voice, which seemed to boom through the room like a cannon blast said:

"Why are you here Caroline? Have you come to gloat at your rival's misfortune?"

His words stunned me and I stood rooted to the floor. Why had he reopened this old wound? It had been Elizabeth that I had treated so badly in the past and she had forgiven me nearly two years ago.

I could feel every muscle and fiber in my body tighten. If my angry outburst at Adrienne Jackson could be compared to a kettle coming to boil, the anger that I could feel surging through my body could surely be compared to a volcanic eruption.

My first instinct was to whirl about, snatch up the closest thing at hand, hurl it at him and begin screaming at him. I even began to move my right arm towards the vase I could see out of the corner of my eye. As I did so brief segments of memory flashed before my eyes. At first they were almost entirely bad. The day I had heard that Elizabeth had accepted Mr. Darcy's proposal. The night after their wedding when I had tried to drown my pain with a bottle of wine. The party at Netherfield where the mere sight of Mr. Darcy had changed me into a statue, unable to move or speak.

But as soon my hand began to move, I could hear a voice in my head that reminded me of Mama's. "Control", it kept saying. "Do not lose control. Do not throw away the most important things in your life in a moment of anger." As the voice spoke in my head the memories changed. They were happier ones. Georgiana's friendship--the foundation that I had rebuilt my life on. The day Elizabeth forgave me for all I had done to her. The day we wiped the slate clean and began anew

I pulled my arm back and slowly turned around. The few seconds that it took to cross the room and stand behind the other chair seemed like an eternity. I stayed behind the chair, needing some sort of physical barrier between us, in case I lost my composure and tried to strike him. I glared at Mr. Darcy who leaned slightly unsteadily against his own chair.

"What did you say?" I had meant to sound calm, but the words came out in a snarl.

"I said . . . "

He got no farther because I immediately interrupted him.

"I heard what you said! Do you honestly think so poorly of me to imagine that I would come into your house to gloat at Elizabeth's misfortune? To gloat at the misfortune of a woman I have come to call a friend? I have seen the great happiness that a child can bring a household. I see it everyday when I see my niece and nephew or Beth Collins. When I heard that Elizabeth was to become a mother, it was my sincere desire that you would share that look of happiness that I see on the face of Charles or Edward whenever their children are in the room. I cannot begin to tell you how sorry I am to hear of your loss."

Mr. Darcy looked genuinely stunned. He opened his mouth to speak, but once again I interrupted.

"I have nothing further to say to you. Good day, sir!" Every ounce of contempt that I could grasp was placed in the speaking of those final three words. I turned on my heel and strode towards the door. As I neared it, I could see Anne and Georgiana standing in the doorway looking utterly astonished. I pushed past them, turned and made my way to the back door. I flung it open with a resounding crash and stormed out into the garden.

For the next ten minutes I paced up and down the garden paths, arms crossed, head down, mumbling. I blush when I remember what I was saying. Just about every curse that I had heard Papa's men use in the years I had played in the warehouse flowed from my lips in a torrent. As I reached the end of one path, I paused before I retraced my steps. It was then that I began to notice the chill that was in the air. I hugged myself tighter, trying to get some warmth back into my body. A weak smile crossed my face as I imagined what the neighbors would have thought if I had shouted aloud the words that I had mumbled during my pacing. A most unusual sight it would have been. A well-dressed woman (but without a cloak!) on a chilly day marching back and forth, swearing like a teamster.

The smile left my face as I concluded that it was simply too cold for me to stay outside any longer. I frowned and opened the door, hoping that I could find an empty room with a fire where I could warm myself. I decided to try the drawing room and I quietly slipped up the hall, hoping no one would notice me.

I came to a stop when I passed the library door. I could hear a raised voice. A raised female voice. It was Georgiana! She was shouting at somebody at the top of her lungs. The thickness of the door prevented me from hearing her exact words, but I could still recognize her voice. Georgiana paused and a male voice began. Mr. Darcy spoke about 3 words before another voice overwhelmed his. My mouth, which was already hanging open in incredulity, opened a little wider. Anne? I could hazard a guess as to what they were discussing so loudly. Anne and Georgiana sounded like they were furious! I stood there for perhaps five minutes, staring at the door in amazement. Then I heard something and I scurried away to hide. The library door was wrenched open and my two friends marched out, each with a face as black as a thundercloud.

I waited until Georgiana and Anne's footsteps faded as they stormed up the stairs before I emerged from my hiding place. Sensing that the hall was empty, I continued my journey to the drawing room. Fortunately, the room was empty and I was able to pull a chair close to the fire and warm myself.

My thoughts were a jumble as I sat there by the roaring fire. Many of them were about the scene in the library with Mr. Darcy. But the incident was still too new and too raw for me to look at it objectively. Instead, my thinking turned more and more to what I had heard in the library as I had passed the door. I had a fairly good idea what Georgiana and Anne had been so angry about. While I was pleased that my friends had taken it upon themselves to chastise Mr. Darcy, I was flabbergasted by the ferocity of their counterattack. Well, perhaps not too surprised that Georgiana possessed such a temper. I'd very nearly had that rage turned in my direction only a few years before. Only Georgiana's ability to change her emotional state from one of anger to pity had kept me from receiving the same sort of tongue lashing that her brother had received.

For a moment, I wondered what Mr. Darcy was thinking. Was he as stunned as I was? The human soul is a strange thing I mused. Only moments ago, I'd dreamed about scratching his eyes out. Now I was mulling over the argument I had overheard, speculating as to whether or not his thoughts were the same as mine.

I was spared further contemplation about a man I seemed to alternately despise and feel concern for by a discreet cough. I looked up to see Mrs. Hood, the housekeeper standing beside my chair. I was a bit startled by the message she delivered. So startled that I had her repeat it several times. It took three recitations of the message and several questions from me before I was assured that Elizabeth wanted to see me.

I slowly made my way upstairs and knocked on the door. Charlotte opened it and I stepped inside. She quietly said, "I'll leave you now." The door closed behind me and I stood there looking at Elizabeth as she lay in bed. She met my gaze and I could see that she had been crying. I crossed the room and sat in the chair that had been placed near the bed. "I'm sorry about the baby." was all I could say. It did not seem to be nearly enough. I thought that I should say more, but no coherent thought entered my mind. After a moment or two of silence, Elizabeth reached out her hand. As I took it, she quietly said "Thank you".

We were silent for several more minutes. I believe that each of us was looking for some subject we could talk about. I was afraid to bring up any topic that involved children, so the topic that I could always talk about, Sam and Fanny was of no use. Finally, Elizabeth spoke again:

"What was that commotion that Charlotte and I heard in the hall?"

I stiffened and released her hand. I could feel my jaw tighten and my eyes narrow. I hoped that she realized that it was not a subject that I wanted to talk about. My response must have accomplished that, at least in part. She tried to approach the subject from a different direction.

"Judging from your response, it is not something that you wish to talk about."

I knew that she would persist until I told her something, so I tried to keep my answers as short and as vague as possible, so I answered, "Yes".

"Does it involve Georgiana or Anne?"

That query confused me for a moment. I hesitated and replied "Not directly". It was clearly not the sort of answer she had expected. I could see the puzzlement on her face as she thought about my answer. But she was not confused for long.

"Does it involve you and another member of the household?"

I shifted uneasily in my chair as I tried to determine how to answer that question. Elizabeth probably had her suspicions as to who the other person was, but I was not going to confirm them for her. So I said "Yes" and emphasized the answer with a frown, hoping that she would get the idea and drop this line of inquiry.

Elizabeth took the hint and suddenly blurted out, "What do you think of Sir James Passmore?" Her abrupt change of conversational topics left me a little startled and somewhat thankful. Startled in that she had changed the topic so quickly and thankful in that she had decided not to find out what exactly was bothering me. I knew that if she wanted to find out, she would, probably from Georgiana. But at least she saved me the embarrassment of having to describe the scene with Mr. Darcy.

My thoughts soon collected themselves, and I asked Elizabeth how much she knew about Sir James and Charlotte. It turned out that most of our knowledge of them came from the same source--Anne. I had at least had the benefit of seeing them together and I could tell that there was at least a flicker of interest on Sir James' part. The person I was unsure of was Charlotte. It was here that Elizabeth's knowledge of Charlotte was useful. She had known Charlotte for most of her life, and she understood her, or at least thought she did, better than most.

Elizabeth must have anticipated my next questions before I asked them. She said that she had spoken with Charlotte, admittedly indirectly, about Sir James. Although Charlotte had not said much on the subject, she had talked about the man. Elizabeth was of the opinion that Charlotte's thoughts were in a jumble. She was certainly gratified by his attentions, and the economic and legal security marrying him would bring her was obvious. But it was Charlotte's heart that seemed especially confused. Elizabeth sensed that Charlotte felt some sort of affection, perhaps even love for Sir James. Charlotte's head was quarreling with her heart. I hoped her heart won.

Elizabeth and I talked a bit longer, mostly about Anne and Georgiana. Soon Charlotte opened the door and told me it was time to leave. We rode home in silence. I was afraid to look at either Charlotte or Anne. If I looked at Charlotte, I was afraid that I would reveal my thoughts about Sir James Passmore by smiling at her. Why I did not want to even glance at Anne was obvious. I'd seen her face for a moment as we walked down to the carriage. Her earlier anger was still apparent. I certainly didn't want the scene with Mr. Darcy discussed in front of Charlotte

Thankfully the rest of the day ended quietly. I was able to hide my emotions from Louisa, Edward and Sam for at least that first night. But as the days grew into weeks, I found myself constantly meditating about the scene in the library. I thought about it whenever I had nothing to do, which meant I contemplated it more and more for the first four weeks after it happened. Like an old wound that refuses to heal, the scene festered inside my mind.

Edward seemed to have an uncanny ability to know when it was best to keep his distance from me. Louisa either did not notice at first or made no mention of the fact that I was increasingly cross. I brought it to her attention one Saturday morning in mid-November however, by screaming at the housekeeper, a maid and Sam in less than an hour. The three outbursts left Mrs. Longstreet quivering with anger, the maid threatening to give notice and poor Sam bawling in his mother's arms that Auntie Caro was a mean old witch.

Louisa restored order fairly quickly. She managed to calm Mrs. Longstreet, persuade the maid not to leave and dried Sam's tears before leaving him in the library to look at picture books with his father. Then she asked me to join her in her room. Louisa had barely closed the door before she turned, and in a remarkably calm voice, considering the fury I could see in her eyes asked me what was the matter. I stood looking at her for a moment, thinking that I had not seen her that angry since we were children. I knew why she was so furious. I'd taken out my anger and frustrations on a two-year-old boy. I could feel the rage that was still inside being washed away as a new emotion flooded my body -- shame.

I took a step back and felt behind myself for the chair that I knew should be close behind me. I found it and sat down and Louisa pulled a second chair over and sat down with an expectant look on her face. I could tell from that look that she expected me to tell her everything. She listened quietly as I told the story of what happened that afternoon at the Darcys' house, occasionally raising an eyebrow when I mentioned something that surprised her.

When I finished telling her of the events that day, Louisa sat quietly for a minute or two, grimacing. Her first question startled me "Why didn't you tell this to me earlier?" I sat in stunned silence for a few seconds, before stammering out a reply, telling her that I had not wanted to involve her in a very private and painful matter. Louisa reached out and touched my arm. I looked up and her smile wordlessly told me everything that I needed to know. I need not have kept the anger that day had created bottled up inside me. It had eaten at me for a month. Talking with Louisa probably would not have taken all the pain and anger away, but it would have helped. I returned her smile with a nod, to indicate that I understood her meaning. Louisa told me where Sam was and I went to apologize to him.

A day or two after my talk with Louisa, I received two letters from Pemberley. One was from Georgiana, full of the usual family and estate news. I shuddered a bit when I saw the writing on the second missive. It was Mr. Darcy's writing! My hands shook a little as I broke open the seal and examined the contents. He was apologizing for the scene in the library! My hands shook a little more and my jaw dropped. I read the letter again to make sure that the words I thought I had read were actually there.

I wasn't sure what to think of the apology. It certainly read like he meant it, but I had this nagging idea in the back of my mind that he'd been forced into it. Probably by Elizabeth, if she had been told of the incident, but perhaps by Georgiana or Anne.

In the weeks that remained until our trip to Foxchase for the anniversary party, a new emotion came into play -- fear. I began to have nightmares in which Mr. Darcy took a private moment to apologize and I attacked him, all the anger that I had held in check erupting out of me.

Eventually, it was time to make the journey to Foxchase. In a way, I began to feel as though I had experienced the dream I was worried about before. I thought about it a bit more and I realized that I had, except before I had wanted to see Mr. Darcy right away, to prove to myself that I could actually be in the same room with him. Now I was afraid to be in the same room with him. I shook my head and tried to banish the thoughts from my mind by picking up my book.

I managed to stay away from Mr. Darcy for most of the first day at Foxchase. This earned me several curious looks from Georgiana, but I ignored them. This afternoon, I was in the library, examining one of the books that Mr. Bennet had sent Charles when something startled me and I looked up to see that Mr. Darcy had pulled a chair close to mine.

He began to speak, but I instinctively recoiled from him, getting as far away from him as the large armchair allowed. It was not that I was afraid of him, but that something inside of me said that keeping my distance would allow me to keep my self-control. However, he interpreted my backing away from him as fear. I could see the pained expression on his face, and I relaxed, resuming my previous posture.

Once I had returned to my original position in the armchair, he began his apology. During the first few moments of it, I was restless and I recalled the nightmares that had plagued me. But the tone of his voice and the honest emotion behind his words calmed me. I could see in his face that he truly meant what he was saying.

He explained about the letter that I had received, telling me that it had originally been his intention to only apologize via a letter. However, upon further reflection he had thought that the letter might be misinterpreted, so he had decided to make a personal apology. (I was thankful for his explanation about the letter. I had been eager to ask about it, but could not think of polite way in which to do it!)

When Mr. Darcy had finished his apology, my anger had evaporated. I could not continue to be angry with someone who was so honestly repentant for his actions. I readily accepted his apology, and I believe that both of us were happy to put the incident behind us.


Chapter 12
Thursday, May 30, 1816

I've always been a person that believed some things were just fated to happen. While the things I have believed were fated to occur did not always come about (my marriage to Mr. Darcy being an excellent example), on other occasions things did turn out right. Anybody who had ever seen Charlotte Collins and Sir James Passmore talking together knew that they were meant to be together! That day has finally come and they were joined in a small ceremony in London this afternoon.

It feels a little strange to see them married. After all, it was only last October when I sat in the Darcy's townhouse and spoke with Elizabeth about how Charlotte seemed to be fighting any sort of attachment that might be forming between herself and Sir James. That afternoon Elizabeth and I came to the conclusion that Charlotte's heart was locked in battle with her head. It was something that I had a good deal of trouble understanding at that time. After all, here was a man who obviously had feelings for her, someone who could give her all the security she and her child could ever possibly want. Economic, legal and social security, plus someone who loved her? What more could any woman want? Charlotte's behavior where Sir James was concerned left me extremely confused. If Sir James, who was by all accounts a truly good man, asked for my hand, and I had the same feelings for him that she occasionally appeared to have, I would not have hesitated to say yes. Especially if I had a child!

But I digress. Before I report on how Sir James won Charlotte's hand, I should summarize the events that have taken place since our December visit to Foxchase. As per our custom, I returned home to London with Louisa and her family to celebrate the holidays with them. Christmas was quiet and I enjoyed watching Sam play with his new toys.

In the two weeks following Christmas I received a stack of letters from friends and family describing their festivities. Georgiana wrote of Christmas at Pemberley and New Year's Day at Matlock Hall. Charles and Jane both wrote about the holidays at Foxchase. I grinned at the scrawl at the bottom of Charles' letter, which was supposedly from Fanny. I was a little surprised to receive a letter from Kitty, who reported that life at the Kympton parsonage was marvelous. It sounded as though there was a kernel of truth to Georgiana and Elizabeth's reports that she had settled in quite well as a rector's wife.

One comment that caught my eye in Georgiana's Boxing Day letter was that Mr. Darcy, hoping to cheer Elizabeth up had invited Charles and Jane, along with Kitty and Mr. Medcalf to Pemberley for the New Year's Day weekend. I eagerly anticipated my next letters from Charles and Jane. But it was Kitty who gave me the most insight into that weekend. I suppose that not having to keep one eye on your child allows you to observe someone else in the room more carefully. According to Kitty, Elizabeth had physically recovered, but her spirits were still quite low.

Once I became aware of this, I asked Jane, Kitty and Georgiana that I be kept informed of how Elizabeth progressed. All three of them happily complied with this, Georgiana and Kitty being the most diligent and they passed on the details of Elizabeth's slow but nonetheless steady recovery. Thanks in large part to the tenderness of Mr. Darcy's care at least some of the spirit of the old Elizabeth had returned by late February.

In mid-March the Darcys journeyed to London. Louisa and I called on them two days after their arrival and the reports of my various correspondents looked to be accurate. Elizabeth did look as though she had recovered physically, but there was nevertheless a noticeable difference in her. While there were hints of the old spirit about her, she was at times very quiet, almost eerily so. I resolved to speak with Louisa about it, but the opportunity to do so did not present itself for several days. Perhaps four days after the visit to the Darcys, when we had finally determined that the next morning would suit our purposes, a note arrived from Charlotte. It appeared that she urgently wanted me to call on her the next morning, so I asked Edward if I could borrow the carriage the next morning and told Louisa that our discussion about Elizabeth would have to wait.

You can imagine my surprise when I saw a second carriage arriving at Anne's house just as we pulled up. I alighted from my conveyance and was astonished to see Elizabeth exit the other vehicle. She looked just as amazed to see me and we stood on the sidewalk and spoke for a moment or two. I'm not sure who mentioned Charlotte, but each of us soon produced our note and we noticed that they were identical. We shrugged our shoulders and made our way up the steps to the door.

Mr. Dawson, the butler, showed us into the sitting room, where Anne and Charlotte were waiting for us. Charlotte asked us to sit down and then she rose and stood before the fireplace. Elizabeth and I glanced at each other. I'm sure that the same thought passed through our minds. She wants to tell us something. I hoped that it had something to do with Sir James Passmore. "Perhaps he finally proposed!" I said to myself.

I believe that all three of us were sitting on the edge of our seats as Charlotte cleared her throat and said, "Sir James Passmore has asked me to marry him." Anne was the first person to leap to her feet and offer her congratulations.

"That's wonderful Charlotte!" she exclaimed, as Elizabeth and I rose and offered our own congratulations.

"But I have asked him for time to think." Charlotte continued. "I asked for 48 hours. He will be here tomorrow to see what my answer will be." Charlotte's voice halted for a moment and I stole a glance at Anne and Elizabeth. They were clearly as confused as I was. After those few seconds' hesitation, Charlotte resumed speaking. She had sunk down into the armchair by the fireplace. She cradled her head in her hands for a moment before raising her head again and saying in little more than a whisper, "I do not know what to do!"

It was Elizabeth who voiced the bewilderment that I am sure we all felt. "Not know what to do?" was all that she said.

"No", Charlotte echoed.

I sank back in my chair utterly perplexed. "Why would she not know what to do?" I kept wondering. As I sat in my chair pondering this mystery, I could hear Anne and Elizabeth conversing with Charlotte.

I'm not sure how soon after Charlotte's announcement that my mind began to wander. But I was soon sitting in my own private little world, trying to determine why Charlotte would be so unsure about what she should do. It did not take long for my thoughts to take a different course. I was soon thinking about what I would do if I were in her place. It was easy to imagine a similar situation.

So I remained perfectly quiet in my seat, my chin cupped in one hand. I was staring at a spot on the wall opposite me, contemplating. I was soon imagining that I was in circumstances similar to Charlotte's. The man from my dream had proposed. The tall, gangling fair-haired man with the enormous smile and the unusual accent who I had dreamt about for three years. I stopped thinking and scowled for a moment. Why did it have to be HIM? I shrugged my shoulders and resumed my thinking. The question about what I would do if I were in Charlotte's shoes soon resolved itself into a series of queries.

Did I know the man as well as Charlotte knew Sir James? If the answer was yes, I believed that I would know my own mind well enough that I would not need to ask for advice.

If I were unsure, whom would I consult? Louisa was an obvious choice, but would she be the only one? I had grown to admire Sarah Hurst greatly, so she was another possibility. There were also several people I didn't think that I would speak with about this kind of problem. Jane always saw the good in people no matter what. Georgiana had had some difficult times in her life, but she still had too much of the hopeless romantic about her.

I then began to ponder the third query on this list, which was . . .

"CAROLINE!" Anne's voice jerked me back to the present. I lifted my head and looked around. I was sure that I was red with embarrassment.

"I'm sorry", I mumbled "What was the question?"

Anne looked annoyed. Elizabeth was watching me, with an interesting look on her face. Charlotte just laughed. I asked Elizabeth and Anne to summarize what they had told Charlotte. I also requested that Charlotte explain why she was so unsure about Sir James.

Anne's arguments about why Charlotte should marry Sir James were surprisingly simple. In Anne's mind there were no reasons at all why Charlotte shouldn't marry him. As far as I knew, Anne had never been in love, so her comments were very much those of the idealist, who can see the beauty in something, but not the emotions and uncertainties that can affect how one views the issue.

Elizabeth, on the other hand, was someone who was all too aware of those uncertainties. So instead of Anne's insistence that Charlotte go ahead with the marriage, no matter what her emotional state, she advised that Charlotte think the matter through carefully. I could sense that Elizabeth and I were in agreement on this point. Charlotte seemed to have not thought the matter through completely. Was her uncertainty about what to do a hasty decision, or had she examined everything?

But once I had heard Charlotte explain the reasons for her uncertainty, my belief that her decision was a hasty one vanished. She did have legitimate reasons for being unsure about what to do next. The main cause of her hesitation was quite simple really. Despite her previous marriage, she had never been in love before. She frankly admitted that the strength of these new emotions terrified her. It was this fear of the unknown that made her so unsure.

I listened to them and thought carefully about what everyone had said. While thinking of what I would say, I thought about Charlotte's fear of the unknown. But I also thought about the heart breaking pain of rejection. I knew that Sir James would not take rejection well. There was a moment or two of silence before I spoke.

"Charlotte, you've been given a second chance at happiness. If it is what you want, what you really want, grab it with both hands and never let go."

The room went quiet again. I could see Elizabeth nodding, perhaps in silent agreement. Anne looked at me with her left eyebrow slightly raised. Perhaps what I had said had surprised her. Charlotte just stared at me, but she pursed her lips as if my statement made sense.

Charlotte and I watched each other for a few seconds, then Elizabeth spoke. "Caroline?" I turned to look at her. "Wasn't there a new tea shop that we had decided to visit? Perhaps we can take Anne as well?" I gazed at her for a second or two before I understood what her intentions were. I smiled and replied. "Yes! Shall we take my carriage?" Anne did not seem to quite understand what was going on, but she came anyway.

The next afternoon, I was watching Sam construct a tower of blocks on the drawing room floor. A footman coughed quietly and I turned to accept the note that had evidently just arrived. I recognized Anne's writing and the haste in which she had written it seemed to indicate that the contents must be important. I tore it open and examined the paper. She had written just one word in large letters and underlined them with a broad stroke: "YES!"

The ceremony itself was a small one. Her family was there, as were the Passmores. There were not many other guests, just the Darcys, the Bennets and the Medcalfs. I sat beside Anne. As Charlotte turned to leave the church, she saw us, and she smiled.


Chapter 13
Wednesday, July 15, 1818

Today I saw my dearest friend married. I should be happy for her. I am happy for her. But nevertheless I have this idea this is one of the days that I will look back on when I'm old and feeble and say that it was one of those moments I knew that my life that had changed. I'm not quite certain as to why I should say that it was my life has changed, when I'm not the one who was joined in holy matrimony today.

After a few more minutes of staring at the page trying to understand the emotions that have possessed me all day, I think I understand them better now. This confused emotional state is due, I believe, to several things.

One must surely be the loss of a dear friend, who will soon be far removed from me. After all, Georgiana's letters, even when she had nothing of any real interest to say, have brightened many a day over the last five years. I used to get one letter a week from her. By Christmas I'll be lucky to get one every two or three months.

It is the other emotion that I have been feeling recently that frightens me though. There have been times when I have felt envy, like the tentacles of some sea creature, tighten its' hold on me. If there is anyone who deserves to be happy, it's Georgiana, and she's been so happy these last months that I doubt that her feet have touched the ground. Anne was the same last year. The idea that I could look at two of my closest friends and feel the fires of jealousy kindling in my soul is most disturbing.

Why is this happening? It is I suppose the rather bitter realization that I am now thoroughly confirmed in my "old maid" status. I'm 29 now. So I've been on the shelf for what, four years? Five years is more like it. But Anne was what, 27 when she married last November? There is, I imagine, some hope for me, but the chances of that happening are so slight that I shouldn't even consider them. To do so would only make me more miserable later.

I just glanced over what I've written so far and I see that once again, I've failed to start the story at the beginning. I've mentioned on two occasions that Anne's married now, and I have not said how that actually came about.

Anne's journey to happiness began on a cloudy day in February of last year. After Charlotte's marriage, we still called on each other regularly and occasionally went on outings. These outings were usually to go shopping, and occasionally Elizabeth or Georgiana accompanied us.

However, on this particular trip, Anne and I had gone to _______'s to look at new bonnets. After several hours of perusing and experimenting and occasional giggling (some of the bonnets were just not becoming on us), each of us had found two bonnets that we liked. Since I wanted to go to a second shop that was a short distance away, we decided to take advantage of the fact that after several days of rain, the weather was gradually clearing.

After depositing our purchases in Anne's carriage, we began the short walk to the second shop, where I hoped to purchase a new pair of boots. As was our custom, we conversed on the way, with Anne telling me about her recent visit to see Charlotte. Anne reported that she was very happy and that she and Sir James had begun to make some alterations to the house at Fair Lakes, which according to Anne desperately needed "a woman's touch". We were so engrossed in our conversation that we forgot to pause and see if the way was clear before we rounded a corner.

The first signs I had that anything was wrong were a grunt from Anne, the sound of bundles falling and a gentleman's voice cursing. I turned to see Anne sprawled on the ground, with several bundles of what appeared to be letters scattered around her. She gathered the bundles up and held out her arm to the gentleman who helped her to her feet. Anne held out the bundles to the gentleman who took them, a little too hastily in my opinion. He made his apologies and asked Anne if she had been injured. When she answered that she had not, he bid us "Good day." and hurried down the street.

Anne watched him as he turned the next corner. She looked at me and asked, "So what do you think?"

"About what?"

"About him", Anne inquired as she gestured in the direction the mysterious gentleman had taken. "I thought he was rather handsome."

I also thought that he was a handsome man and said as much, but I did not mention that I had thought him to be rather rude. After all, he had knocked her down and made no more apologies than the minimum dictated by politeness.

I reminded Anne of our errand and we continued on our way.

The next week we went shopping again, choosing to visit a new establishment which had earned an excellent reputation. I was wandering through the store, appraising the merchandise when I felt something tug at my sleeve. It was Anne, who inclined her head towards the far corner. I looked in the direction indicated and saw that it was the man who had run into Anne the previous week. Both of us watched him for several minutes as I tried to determine why he was there. He did not appear to be a customer and he was too well dressed to be an employee. Could he be the owner? I smiled to myself at what Lady Catherine's reaction would be to her daughter taking a sudden interest in a tradesman.

We continued to stand there, watching the conversation taking place in the far corner. Anne was content merely to gaze at the gentleman, while I tried to think of a plan to at least get an introduction. I had nearly decided that I could think of no practical scheme to get Anne an introduction when the door opened and Mr. Gardiner walked in. I observed Mr. Gardiner and Anne's mysterious gentleman speak for a moment or two before I had an idea. Mr. Gardiner knew me only slightly and he and Anne had only been introduced to each other once, at Pemberley. But he could at least introduce us to the slightly built fair-haired man in the corner. I smiled to myself and touched Anne's arm to get her attention.

Anne and I made our way over to where the gentlemen were standing. Mr. Gardiner appeared to see us coming since he stopped speaking and waited for us to draw near. Mr. Gardiner's companion, noticing that Mr. Gardiner has stopped speaking, turned in our direction and watched us approach. I stopped a few feet from Mr. Gardiner, with Anne at my side.

Mr. Gardiner made the proper introductions, and we soon learned that the mysterious gentleman was Mr. Anthony Somers. We curtseyed and the gentleman bowed as the introduction was made. The four of us stood talking together for a few minutes while I thought of some way to allow Anne and Mr. Somers a few minutes to themselves. Glancing about at the goods that were near us, I saw a table stacked with books a short distance away. Excusing myself from the group, I made my way over to the books, hoping that Mr. Gardiner would do something similar.

I took my time perusing the books, finding nothing that would interest me, but several that might be to Charles or Edward's liking. I looked around the shop a few times, and saw Anne and Mr. Somers quietly conversing while Mr. Gardiner stood at a nearby table, examining something. I was unsure what was on the table until he picked one up and I recognized it. Turning back to the books I smiled to myself, wondering if Mrs. Gardiner would be receiving some sort of gift from her husband this evening.

Eventually it was time for Anne and I to leave. We walked out to the carriage in silence. I had purchased two books, one for Charles and one for Edward. Anne had a dreamy sort of smile on her face. When we were in the carriage I tried to get her attention. "Anne?" I asked, repeating myself twice before she seemed to notice. Even then she only looked at me, with that same expression on her face. I shook my head, realizing that she was a lost cause. We rode the rest of the way home in utter stillness.

Weeks passed by and Anne and Mr. Somers spent more and more time together. It was all proper of course, as I or one of her relatives chaperoned them. But I could not shake a strange feeling that something about Mr. Somers was not quite right. So I began to quietly make inquiries amongst my friends and acquaintances for information about him. I knew that I would not intervene unless I found something truly terrible about the man. I was merely looking for anything to ease my troubled mind.

You can imagine my surprise when I discovered that Mr. Somers was one of the "Wiltshire Somers"! The Somers family, as most people know, were once one of the wealthiest families in that county. But several generations of excessive spending had reduced the family's finances to such an extent that they were on the brink of financial ruin. This knowledge did nothing to calm my fears, nor the further intelligence that Anthony was a younger son, who would have looked to "marry money" anyway. What truly startled me was the reason that Anthony appeared to be a tradesman, because in a way he was.

Realizing that his family would be unable to support him and that many eligible young ladies might not want to marry into such a family, he had decided to make his own fortune. So he had gone to London, with little to recommend him but his name and his Cambridge education. He had struggled at first, but a moderately successful company had taken him on as a sort of junior partner and he had done well. According to George Hurst, all that kept Mr. Somers from going into business for himself was insufficient funds.

For a time I wondered if Anne was being courted for her money, but these fears were soon proved false. These two were truly in love and when he proposed in early September she accepted. The wedding itself was a small one, with few people there from the groom's family and only family and a few friends from the bride's.

With Anne joining the ranks of married women, I was saved from boredom by two things. The most important of these was the birth of my twin nieces Sarah and Caroline in early December. Louisa seemed to have an easier time than she did with Sam and I was truly honored that she would name one of her daughters after me. It was a great joy to have babies in the house again, even if little Caroline did seem to be extremely fussy at times.

The second thing that kept my life from becoming dull was the arrival of the Darcys in early January. They had decided to spend some time in London with Charles and Jane so I saw Georgiana fairly often.

In early February, Mr. Darcy and Elizabeth honored their promise to take Georgiana to the opera and purchased a box for the show that was supposed to be the finest of the season. Since there was an extra seat in their box, Georgiana invited me to come along. Eager for an evening that did not involve crying babies, I accepted.

The show was indeed a fine one, with superb music, singing and costumes. During one of the intermissions, we all left the box for a few minutes. That was when it happened. Elizabeth saw someone she knew emerging from their box a short distance away and we made our way over to speak with them. I knew the couple in question slightly, but the key member of the other party was the man in uniform, a captain in the Royal Navy if I remember my lesson in uniforms. The proper introductions were made and after speaking with me for a moment o 
r two, his attention was occupied largely with Georgiana, who seemed to be quite pleased by it. 
My emotions were in a strange turmoil as I watched them. I was glad to see that Georgiana had an admirer (even though Mr. Darcy's frequent glares were amusing), but what rankled was how quickly I had been passed over in Georgiana's favor. I could feel the envy beginning to build inside me and I turned away for a moment to collect myself.

I examined my thoughts on the matter and got them into some kind of order.

Was I jealous because she had the attention of this particular man?

No, I'm jealous because she is young and beautiful and I am not.

Come now! Do you really believe that? You're envying your best friend!

I suppose not. My pride is bruised that is all. Put it down to further proof that I'm "on the shelf". One glance and he identified me for what I am. A spinster here because there was room!

Besides, you never liked officers! Although there was that one when you were 17 . . .

I turned back to the group with a small smile on my face. I could see Charles standing beside Elizabeth, looking concerned. His eyebrow was raised as he examined my face. I mouthed "Later" at him, and he nodded as if he understood before resuming his conversation with Jane and Elizabeth.

The courtship between Georgiana and Captain Paul Stewart went smoothly, although Mr. Darcy's attempts to play big brother were a constant source of amusement to just about everyone, especially Charles and Elizabeth. When the time came for Captain Stewart to ask for Georgiana's hand, he had accepted that Georgiana was no longer the little sister that needed constant protection. (An idea fostered by Elizabeth no doubt.) Thus the engagement of Miss Georgiana Darcy and Captain Paul Stewart was announced in mid-May.

The wedding itself was a splendid one. All of Georgiana's relatives were there, as were many friends. I spent much of my time at the reception speaking with Mary Fitzwilliam (just back from Gibraltar) and Lady Andrea. Both of them were quite pleased to tell me of their sons, Henry and Albert, both of whom had been born in the last year. I in turn talked of my growing brood of nieces and nephews which had increased to five with Sarah and Caroline joining Sam, Fanny and the year old Master William Bingley.

The entire day seemed to pass in a whirl and it was only after I retired for the night that things began to sink in. I'm the only one left now. They're all married . That hurt even more than the knowledge that Georgiana would soon be departing for Halifax.

Continued in Part 3

Caroline's Journal 
By Chris

Part 1|Part 2|Part 3|

Chapter 14
Wednesday, January 30, 1822

Yesterday was my birthday. I'm thirty-three now. I can remember when I was younger birthdays always made me excited. Not any more. Now they are, if anything, a source of misery. A reminder that all my dreams are gone. The dreams that any young girl has of a handsome husband, healthy children and a happy home. I have none of these, and I doubt I ever will.

Being a maiden aunt is, to put it bluntly, no longer enough. My nieces and nephews are my pride and joy, but how can I look at them and not feel a stab of pain at the knowledge that they call another woman "mama"? It's rather strange to look at my own flesh and blood and feel this way. I don't think I have been jealous of Louisa in fifteen years, but whenever her children run to her shouting "mama" and throwing their arms about her, I feel just that. It's just as bad at Foxchase.

My apologies, if my handwriting suddenly seems poorer. I glanced about my desk at the framed miniatures and my piles of correspondence and I had to get away from all the signs of other people's happiness. So I am now curled up in the armchair by the fire, with the inkwell on the small table beside me.

The miniatures of Louisa and Charles and their families seemed to be taunting me. It is strange what jealousy and hopelessness can do. I glanced at two objects that I look at ten times a day when I am in this room, and I heard my siblings speaking to me, gloating over their successful marriages and happy children.

I knew there was something on the table already. I had to push it out of the way to put the inkwell down. I set my journal aside for a moment to see what it was. It is another miniature, this time of Georgiana and her baby. I studied it closely, surprised that it had come all the way from Halifax without any damage. The portrait itself is quite remarkable for the work of an amateur. It must have been the admiral's wife who did it. What was her name? Randall? No, it was Randolph. She was the one who offered to trade Georgiana art lessons for piano instruction for her daughter. If this is an example of Mrs. Randolph's work, I think that the agreement will benefit everyone.

Has Georgiana really been gone for over two years? These two years which seem to have been the saddest in my life? Hmm. Can I blame my profound sense of misery over the last two years on Georgiana's absence? No, that would be unfair on her. While her absence has been a cause of my distress, it was not been the sole reason.

No, the primary source of my distress has been this painful sense of longing. Longing for something that I will never have and what's more, something that I will always be reminded of at every turn. Every where I go, I see happy children, doting mothers, and proud fathers. There is no escaping it! Such is the curse of the spinster aunt. It gives one a rather strange sense of both belonging and not belonging. I feel as though I belong to my family, yet at the same time, I do not belong to some greater guild. It's quite distressing to be in a room full of family and friends and hear them talk about their children.

Perhaps I can return to my desk to write. Hopefully my miniatures won't start mocking me again, because this chair is not very comfortable.

Yes, much better now. I watch the miniatures for a moment, as if challenging them to say something. They don't and I pick them up one by one to study them in the flickering light of the candles.

I pick up the one on my left, of Charles' children. There's Fanny, with her long blonde hair. A "big girl now" of seven as she proudly proclaims herself. To her right is William, a perfect replica of his father. On Fanny's left is little Maria, barely two when the painting was done. I can't help but wonder how they got her to sit still for so long!

Replacing the picture, I lifted one of the others, this one of Louisa's children. Painted by the same artist, it has a familiar look to it, almost like they were painted to mirror each other. But the similarities end there. In the middle is the eldest child, Samuel. But where Fanny looks so happy, her cousin Sam looks so . . . serious. With a stern visage like that, I tried to imagine a profession for Sam. A bishop? Or perhaps a judge, pronouncing sentence?

To each side of Sam is one of his twin sisters. Both of them are laughing, looking so cute in their white dresses and bonnets adorned with pink sashes and ribbons. I gazed at the miniature and tried to remember where each one of the girls sat. It's a bit harder to tell them apart when both are laughing, but as I studied them, I determined that Sarah was to Samuel's left and Caroline to his right. The painter really did do a fine job of capturing my nieces' eyes. That is what gives them away in the end. Sarah's happy innocence and Caroline's mischievous look.

I paused for a moment and reached out with my free hand to take up the painting of Charles' children. Holding a miniature in each hand, I studied them intently. I endeavored to find some similarity between the children and myself. Samuel had a few "Bingley" features, especially his nose, but there was also a lot of "Hurst" in him. There was a bit more of a resemblance between myself and Caroline and Sarah. Placed side-by-side, it was obvious that we were related, but it was also obvious that I was not their mother. While Louisa and I have always resembled each other, there are differences and the twins looked just like their mother.

It was much the same way with William, whose appearance and expressions were exactly like his father's. There was the obvious family resemblance between William and I, but nothing else. Nothing that would identify him as being my child. With Fanny there was no similarity at all, since she looked so much like her mother. Maria, on the other hand, was like Louisa's Sam, a combination of both parents.

Setting the miniatures down, I took my candle and moved over to the bed, determined to try and get some sleep. As I lay there, I attempted to remember all the children that were in my extended circle of family and friends. In addition to my 6 nieces and nephews, Lord and Lady Fitzwilliam had one; Kitty and Benjamin Medcalf two; Colonel and Mrs. Fitzwilliam also had two; Charlotte had borne Sir James a son; Anne had one with another on the way. Even the Darcys, after their past tragedy, had been blessed with two fine children. The Christmas post had brought the sketch of Georgiana and her daughter, which I had placed on the small table in front of the fire.

In hindsight, all that thinking about children was a mistake. It took me a long time to fall asleep and it was not a particularly restful sleep. Judging by the state of the bedclothes in the morning, I must have tossed and turned a great deal. My restlessness was not helped any by the reappearance of my "mystery man at the ball" dream. Just when I thought I had rid myself of it (it had been two months since the last time), the dream occurred again. What was once a beautiful fantasy was becoming a nightmare.

Needless to say, I was more than a little cross this morning.

Proof of just how irritable I had become thanks to my restive night was shown in mid morning. I had stayed in bed far past my usual hour for beginning the day, trying to get at least a little sleep. It had not worked and I had eventually risen and had breakfast in front of the fire. I was just finishing my tea when there was a slight knock on the door and before I could say "Enter", the door opened and my niece Caroline scurried in. Frankly I was not in the mood for company and Caroline's persistent questions soon drove me into a state of exasperation.

Little Caroline was nothing if observant. Noticing that I did not look particularly happy, her interrogation began.

"Why do you look so sad Aunt Caroline? Don't you like birthdays?"

I groaned inwardly. Trust Caroline to immediately go to the heart of the problem. But I knew that I had to give her some sort of answer, or she would continue to pester me. "Not anymore Caroline. I used to, but I don't like them much now."

"Why not? I like birthdays! Sam likes birthdays. Even Mama likes birthdays."

She did have a point. Louisa did like birthdays. Her favorite gifts were not the new dresses from me or new furniture that Edward bought her, but the simple things that her children had made for her. I was powerless to give her a reply that was not too revealing; yet she would insist on having one.

"I just do not like them any more Caroline. Not everyone likes birthdays when they get older. Look at Grandpa Hurst. He does not like birthdays." That should do it I thought to myself.

But Caroline had a response even for that. "Papa says that Grandpa does not like birthdays because Aunt Sarah makes him come out of the library and be nice to people."

"BLAST!" I mumbled.

In hindsight, I don't know why I did what I did next. Instead of trying to evade her relentless inquiries, I suddenly decided to tell her the truth, or at least something close to it.

Caroline had been standing in front of me since she had entered the room. I leaned forward and whispered to her, gesturing towards the empty chair as I did so. "Sit down and have a piece of toast and Aunt Caroline will tell you a secret!"

Her eyes grew big and she immediately scrambled into the chair. "But you mustn't tell Sarah and you certainly mustn't tell Mama or Uncle Charles!" Caroline eagerly nodded that she understood and I began.

"Ever since I was a little girl, a little girl about Fanny's age, I dreamed that a tall, handsome prince would marry me and make me the happiest woman in the world." (This certainly seemed to interest Caroline.)

"Sometimes I still have that dream. I had it again last night, but instead of making me happy, it made me very sad, since I am not married and I have no children. I'm much too old to get married now."

Caroline was quiet for a moment, although I think it was the mouthful of toast as much as the story I had just told her that kept her quiet. Then she jumped out of her chair and hugged me around the knees and whispered. "Don't worry. Some day your prince will come!"

I smiled at her, to assure Caroline that I believed her. She turned to go out of the room but paused as she reached the doorway. Turning to me, she said, "Why don't you have a nap this afternoon Aunt Caroline? I always feel better after a nap!"

I grinned at her. "Yes, I think I will. Why don't you go ask Mama if you can sleep in here if you want to?" She agreed to do just that.

When nap time came, Caroline crept into the room in her nightdress. I was already in bed, but had folded down the covers on the other side so she could climb in. We were soon settled, and after some wrestling for the bedclothes we were both asleep.

Ever since I had proposed a nap, I had been afraid that the dream would come back. It did of course and I remember sitting up in bed gasping for air. I looked down at Caroline, afraid that my thrashing had awoken her. It had not, and I realized that she must be a sound sleeper, like her mother. Adjusting the bedclothes, I eased myself back down into bed. While unable to fall asleep again, I did feel rested when my maid came to tell us it was time for tea.


Chapter 15
Friday, December 13, 1822

This week began, as the second week in December has for the last nine years, with the family preparing to journey to a party. Since the previous year's party was at Foxchase, this year's was to be at Pemberley. Louisa, the governess and I, after a good deal of difficulty managed to get the children into the carriage and on our way.

The ride to Pemberley is always a long one and the three children combined to make it seem lengthier than usual. In the house, Sam is usually a model of good behavior, but sit him in a carriage for more than an hour and he feels that it is his duty to harass someone. His favorite victim is Caroline, who then feels required to defend herself. Soon the two of them were bickering and after half an hour Louisa reprimanded both of them, which resulted in each of them sulking in their respective corners, Caroline looking like she was on the verge of tears.

Everyone's mood improved a little after luncheon. Sam wanted to sit with the driver and after begging Edward for permission, he did so until the next stop. Needless to say, those of us that remained inside the carriage enjoyed the quiet, which was extended when Caroline, who at five is quite the tomboy, was allowed to sit next to Mr. Hull for a time.

Our first two or three days at Pemberley were quiet enough, filled with the usual preparations for the party, and the swapping of news about our families, especially the ones that were not there. I was overjoyed to hear that Georgiana and Captain Stewart would be back early in the spring.

Yesterday morning began much as the previous ones had. After breakfast, everyone went his or her separate way. The children were soon running about the house, with several of them getting into mischief. Nine year old Sam and Fanny (who's eight) have been playmates almost since birth and they soon found ways to annoy their mothers. If kept apart, they are well behaved, but there is something about the two of them together that makes them little devils. If there are mud puddles or snow banks to jump in, or something easily broken, the two of them will discover it!

By mid-morning, Sam and Fanny had succeeded in coating themselves in mud, which was kept out of the house only through Jane's watchful eyes. As I watched the mud-covered children being marched upstairs I shook my head in amazement. The two of them really were quite a handful, more so than Sarah, Caroline, William, Henry Fitzwilliam and Albert Fitzwilliam combined!

When the household met again for lunch, Sam and Fanny had bathed and dressed in clean clothes. But their expressions puzzled me. While Sam was sulking, Fanny was positively beaming.

It has always been my practice not to interfere in the disciplining of the children, but the fact that Sam and Fanny seemed to have such different opinions on the matter left me wondering quite what had happened. I was still trying to think of a way to ask one of them about it when Fanny approached me with Sam in tow.

Now Fanny has always been a happy child, but something obviously had her excited, almost to the bursting point. I waited to hear what it was, and sure enough, Fanny revealed it to me, her words coming out in a torrent.

"Aunt Caroline, may I ask you a favor?"

"Certainly Fanny."

"Will you be our chaperone at the ball tonight?" (She gestured towards a none too happy Sam as she made this request.)

"What do your mothers have to say about this?"

"That we may go and stand to the side if you will watch us," Sam replied.

I looked at the two of them. Sam appeared to be a man who was stoically accepting his fate. Fanny watched me anxiously, trying to guess what my answer might be.

"Very well. But the first sign of misbehavior or tiredness and off you go!"

"Thank you Aunt Caroline!" Fanny exclaimed as she threw her arms about me and hugged me tight. Sam gave a very good impression of a man who was preparing to meet the hangman.

Fanny soon skipped out of the room, giggling that she had to pick out a dress for the evening. I took the opportunity to ask Sam why he looked so unhappy about the whole thing. "She'll want to dance!" he moaned.

I could not help smiling at his discomfort. The past summer, Fanny had decided that she wanted to learn to dance and Sam had been cajoled into being her partner, since they were about the same size, plus Louisa thought it was time for him to learn a few refinements. The lessons had not gone well. Despite Sam's best efforts and the patient teaching of his Uncle Charles, the only thing my poor nephew was particularly good at was stepping on Fanny's toes. I patted him on the shoulder and pointed out that even if Fanny did want to dance, it would not be on the dance floor itself and that I would probably be the only person to see them dancing.

This seemed to improve his disposition slightly. He left the room and I soon followed. I spent much of the afternoon in my chambers taking care of my own preparations for the ball. I debated whether or not I should wear my dancing slippers, since I would spend much of the evening watching Sam and Fanny. I decided to wear them in the end, in the belief that someone would take over minding the children if I was asked to dance.

Just as my own arrangements had been completed, there was a knock on the door and Fanny's head soon peeked around the doorframe. "Come help me pick a dress!" she begged. When I got to the room that she was sharing with Beth Collins I saw that there were three dresses laid out on the bed. Jane was standing next to the bed looking none too pleased. Fanny quickly sketched out the situation. She had wanted to wear one dress while her mother had preferred another. Beth, who happened to be in the room, had indicated her preference for a third.

"Which one?" Fanny pleaded. I looked at the three choices. It was easy to guess who had selected each dress. Beth's selection was rather severe; but then again her views on dresses tended to be along those lines. That left Fanny's choice and Jane's. Examining the two of them closely, I gradually formed the opinion that Jane's choice would be more appropriate for the evening, since it was, in fact an evening dress, whereas Fanny had picked a favorite morning dress. "This one." I said as I held up the dress her mother had selected. Fanny began to pout, exclaiming "But Mama!" however Jane said gently "Now Fanny, you said that you would wear which ever dress Aunt Caroline picked." Fanny nodded and thanked me for my help.

The remainder of the day passed uneventfully and then it was time for the ball. I met Sam and Fanny at the foot of the main staircase. I complimented Sam, saying that he looked like quite a little gentleman. He colored a little at my remark, but thanked me for it. He offered his arm to Fanny, which she accepted with a giggle. I followed the young couple into the ballroom.

It was not until the first dance had begun that I began to notice the strange feeling that came over me. It is hard to describe accurately. But it consisted mainly of a cold shiver running down my spine and a shortness of breath. The sensation passed in a couple of minutes, but for that time, I was feeling sufficiently lightheaded to lean against a nearby piece of furniture for support.

The children had their dance and for the first time, Sam performed it without stepping on Fanny's toes. They were far from flawless, but Sam looked very pleased with himself. Fanny looked a bit tired after the dance, so she and Sam sat down and watched the adults whirl about the dance floor. I alternated between standing over them, and walking about the dance floor, never straying far from where the children were seated, but far enough away to improve my view of some parts of the dance floor.

I had just returned from one of these little walks when the feeling that I had briefly experienced earlier returned. If it had been a minor annoyance before, it came back much more powerfully this time. So powerful in fact, that I thought it best to sit down. I must have had an unusual expression on my face, because Fanny was soon asking me, her concern apparent "Are you feeling well?" I managed to get out that I was feeling a little tired and just wanted to rest for a bit. Nevertheless, she sat close to me for the next several minutes.

Just as the music ended, Fanny asked in a quiet voice "Who is that man staring at you Aunt Caroline?"

"Where?"

"Over there, near the window." Fanny gestured at a window set into the far wall.

I could not see the window she was pointing at very well from my chair, so I stood in order to get a better view. It was then that I saw him, the man who had been a constant visitor in my dreams for nearly ten years. I stared at him in what must have been open-mouthed incredulity as he was making his way through the dancers towards us.

"Go and get your father." I said to Fanny. I had meant for it to come out as a softly spoken sentence, but it came out as a strangled whisper. She must have heard me, because she went running towards her parents calling "Papa, Papa, Aunt Caroline wants you!" If I had not been standing rooted to the floor in a state of complete shock, I would have died of embarrassment, since everyone in the room turned to look at us when they heard Fanny's announcement.

At this point, I felt that my legs would give way any second, so I clutched at the first thing I could in order to support myself. It happened to be Sam, who had stood in front of me when we all rose from our chairs. He must have believed that I was frightened, because I could feel him bringing himself to his full height, as though he meant to protect me. He was saved from having to make any such move by the arrival of his father and uncle.

Charles, Edward and the mysterious stranger all arrived more or less simultaneously. It was Charles who made the introductions, announcing that the man was an old friend of his, Sir Robert Macmillan. Charles must have seen the puzzled look that passed over my face, since he elaborated, telling me that Sir Robert was the Member of Parliament for Edinburgh and had been a member of his club for years. (I must make clear that at this point, I very nearly throttled my dear brother.) Known him for years? But I also realized why his accent had confused me so much in my dream. There had always been Scots around the warehouse when I was a child. It was an accent I should have recognized.

Sir Robert bowed, and I curtsied, and I asked him how he came to be at Pemberley. He smiled that lazy smile of his, which I found more attractive with each passing second and replied, "Your brother was kind enough to invite me. Said I needed some cheering up!" Charles reentered the conversation at this moment, happily stating "Yes, you'd been looking rather sad all year!"

All this information had my thoughts in a jumble. Old friend . . . Sad for a year . . . .Why . . ..

But I did not have time to resolve any of this. Sir Robert was smiling at me again. "May I have the next dance, Miss Bingley?"

The remainder of the ball passed in a whirl. The only things I can remember clearly are dancing, talking, laughing and feeling more ALIVE than I had in years.

My euphoria had not begun to wear off by the time I retired. My maid asked me my opinion of the ball and all I could do was babble.

"He's here. I've seen him, touched him, and talked with him. Even danced with him. The man from my dream exists and he is staying not five miles from here!"

My maid looked at me curiously, as if she was trying to determine whether or not I had gone mad in the last few hours. Eventually she just shrugged her shoulders and asked me if there was anything else I needed. Upon hearing that I did not require further attention, she excused herself and left my chamber, still shaking her head.

This morning I bounded out of bed like a young girl on Christmas morning, determined to try and record everything that had happened at the ball. But I was so excited I could not concentrate, so I put it off until now. I shall have to sign off momentarily, since I have just been reminded that it is tea time and Sir Robert shall be here!


Chapter 16
Monday, March 31, 1823

The long wait is over. The sleepless nights wondering at the identity of the man who was a constant visitor to my dreams have ceased. For I am soon to cast aside the role of "spinster aunt" and join the ranks of married women. Lady Caroline Macmillan. That has a nice ring to it, does it not? Hmmm. Would I be any less euphoric if it was plain Mrs.? No! Most certainly not!

Since the day Mr. Darcy and Elizabeth were married, my stays at Pemberley had always seemed to be brief. They were even briefer this past December. Every waking moment after that fateful Thursday was spent thinking of one man. How long had it been since I had thought each day about a man? Years. Since the days I had struggled to get any notice from Mr. Darcy. But Mr. Darcy had been replaced by another. A tall Scotsman with fair hair and a ready smile had supplanted him. A man whose mere presence made me feel young again.

The afternoon after the ball, Sir Robert had been invited to tea. I can remember nothing that occurred during the early parts of the tea party except the surreptitious glances that I constantly sent in his direction as I followed him around the room with my eyes. Nervousness prevented me from approaching him outright, so I stood in one place and covertly watched Sir Robert as he conversed with Mr. Darcy and Charles. At one point he turned and before I could turn my head away he had caught me. I flushed and lowered my head in embarrassment.

I was still studying the design of Elizabeth's china when I heard someone take the seat next to me. My senses told me that it was him, but I was too mortified to even speak with him. But his quiet tones soon roused me and we spent an enjoyable few minutes talking about the weather, the roads and most of the other subjects that make up polite party conversation.

One topic that did reveal something of the man was our conversation about Scotland. Since I had never visited that part of the kingdom, I asked him about it. His enthusiasm for his home was obvious, but he nevertheless surprised me. I had assumed that his favorite part of the land would be his estate, and his revelation that it was not stunned me. Instead, he spoke eloquently about a stretch of seaside that he traveled along whenever he came to England and the Highlands where he hunted and fished with his cousins. One could not help but be drawn in by his word picture of the lochs, bleak yet beautiful.

I can not recall that anyone ever made me determined to visit a place, merely by describing it. (Not even Pemberley can claim this honor, but I blame Charles, who viewed it first, and his inability to express himself like Sir Robert for this!) Sir Robert's vivid portrayal of Loch Ness and the area around Inverness, with his use of phrases like "the sacred field of Culloden" (which made me think for a minute he was a Jacobite) and "the majestic ruins of Urquhart Castle", which overlooked the Loch. For much of my adult life I have not had the adventuresome spirit that I had in my younger tomboy days, but as I sat captivated, listening to Sir Robert, I was filled with a desire to see these places.

The following day was Sunday and the inhabitants of Pemberley made their way to Kympton to attend the services there. I have always enjoyed Mr. Medcalf's sermons, but he outdid himself that day. I was sitting mesmerized when I noticed that the coat of the gentleman in front of me had a thread hanging from it. Intending to gently pluck it away, I reached up to remove it. I must have pulled with more force than I intended, because the man turned around and I found myself face to face with a puzzled Sir Robert. I flushed again, since I had not noticed him when he came in. But I summoned up what was left of my courage and held out the dainty thread. He looked at it and nodded his thanks. I sank back into my pew, my emotions in a whirl.

Our departure from Pemberley the next morning must surely have been one of the most comical things seen there in many years. Usually, I am busy chasing the children about, making sure that they are all in the carriage. The usual procedure was reversed that forenoon as the girls fairly dragged me back to the waiting vehicle. Sir Robert had stopped by to pay his respects before he departed for Edinburgh and my nieces only pulled me back to the carriage with a great deal of effort. I was greeted with an amused glance from Louisa when I was finally seated and with several knowing looks from the children.

Christmas was a bit difficult. I tried time and time again to tell myself that it was nonsense to be upset over being separated from a man I had only been introduced to days before. The customary Christmas correspondence did little to brighten my mood. The only letter which was delivered before New Year's Day that I could remember reading intently was Charles' and Sir Robert was only mentioned in a single paragraph, where my brother announced his safe arrival in Edinburgh.

Jane's epistle, which arrived on Twelfth Night, surprised me however. I would never have believed her to be the kind of person who read someone else's mail, but she did pass along some vital intelligence. Sir Robert, it seemed had mentioned me in his letter to Charles. Jane even went so far as to say that it sounded like he was badgering my brother for further information about me. If Jane wanted to lift my spirits, this information did accomplish that, but it also had some adverse effects.

I was somewhat annoyed at Charles for not mentioning Sir Robert's interest in me, but then logic took over and pointed out that Charles may have been trying to keep his friend's confidence. Another possibility was that he was trying to keep me from raising my hopes too much. As much as I wanted to be angry with my brother, I could not find it in myself to do so.

The holidays were soon over and mid January brought news from Charles that Sir Robert would be returning to London. My emotions were increasingly confused at this time. I desperately wanted him to call, but I was also afraid that I was becoming too dependent on Sir Robert. What if he did not return my feelings?

I resolved to think things through as soon as possible. Fortunately, an opportunity presented itself that very night. Louisa and Edward had been invited to dine at the home of Edward's brother. I remained behind, stating that I had a headache. With the house to myself, I could consider matters without interruption.

After a quiet supper, I sat silently in the armchair in my chamber, trying to determine just how I felt about Sir Robert. But another man silently entered my thoughts. Lieutenant James Percy. The mere whispering of his name made me sit upright in my chair. Why, at a time like this, was I contemplating a man I had not spoken or thought about in over a decade? It took a couple of minutes of frantic searching about my memory before I recalled just who James Percy had been and why he was important.

Lieutenant Percy had entered my life in the summer of 1806, when I was a rather silly seventeen year-old, fresh from school. I shuddered momentarily as I remembered just how silly I had been all those years ago, and then memories of that summer took over again. We met at a party, one of my first. I cared not who I stood up with, as long as I had a partner for every dance. One of my favorites that night proved to be a slightly built officer who waltzed divinely. How I enjoyed whirling about the ballroom with him! It was not until I was so exhausted that I could not dance another step that I took a seat. My aunt, who had taken me under her wing when my mother had died three years before soon, took me aside.

What followed was a brief lecture on gentlemen and not giving them misleading ideas about your intentions. Aunt Cassandra had asked me a little too bluntly what I thought about my dance partner and I was surprised to hear that she was worried that I might be forming an attachment with him. She also advised me to make it clear that if I had not formed an attachment I should let him know immediately. But she had not told me how to do it.

I handled it pretty badly. Instead of being gentle, I had been harsh, perhaps even rude. When he left the ball it was obvious that he was angry.

Three years later I heard that a Captain James Percy had been killed during the terrible retreat to Corunna, in Spain. I had not given it a second thought then. But now it gnawed at me. Had he forgiven me? Were his last words a call for his mother? His wife? Or were they a curse against a blundering young lady who had treated him so badly?

After that, I could not concentrate about Sir Robert at all. No matter how hard I tried to cast James Percy from my thoughts, I could not. The question of whether he had forgiven me tormented me for the rest of the day and I went to bed feeling a good deal more miserable than I had claimed to earlier.

Two days after my memories of James Percy had surfaced; Sir Robert came to visit. Thus began a pattern that lasted for several weeks. He would call twice a week and everyone in the house soon looked forward to his visits. He was a wonderful conversationalist, able to speak with the always curious Sam about Scotland and his early life in the Army or Louisa and I about art, music and books with similar enthusiasm. In hindsight, those visits should have told me a great deal about the man, but I now believe I was so busy trying to determine how I felt that I may have missed any indication as to how he felt about me.

Whenever he called, I would be happy all the time that he was there and the rest of the day. By the next morning, I would be worrying, trying to analyze everything that had been said; every movement, every glance.

That examination of each call, which I had hoped would help me determine what Sir Robert felt for me (and for that matter what I felt for him) served to do exactly the opposite. I could not help but compare it with my earlier pursuit of Mr. Darcy. For two years I had chased after a man I thought I knew well, only to discover in the end that I did not know him at all. As I tried to think about Sir Robert, the comparison came easily. I had known Sir Robert for less than two months and yet the attraction was so much stronger, so strong that it frightened me.

In mid February he surprised Louisa and I by inviting us to the opera. He had procured a box for what was supposed to be the performance of the season and he invited us to accompany him and his sister to the opera house. Louisa and I gladly accepted and her eagerness to meet Sir Robert's sister rivaled my own.

I need not have worried about meeting Helena Campbell. She was a friendly woman, who reminded me in many ways of Jane or Georgiana. Louisa found her to be an excellent partner for conversation, and the party in our box soon broke into three groups: Louisa and Helena, Edward and Allan Campbell and Sir Robert and myself. This was a little disconcerting, since I still found speaking with Sir Robert alone made me extremely nervous. Whenever he had called, Louisa had always been there and had taken part in the conversation, at least at first.

My nerves were not improved by my suspicion that the Campbells' presence was not strictly social. Although they sat behind me during the performance, I could not shake the idea that I was being watched and perhaps even spoken about, because I heard several comments whispered between them, not loud enough to be understood, but certainly loud enough to be noticed. Thus, when Sarah asked me what I thought of the opera the next morning, I could not give her much of a review. My senses and emotions were too involved elsewhere.

Shakespeare once said "Beware the Ides of March". I will always remember them as the day I made the most important decision in my life. Something inside me told me that Sir Robert would be proposing soon. I don't know how I knew this, but I did. I was also aware of the fact that if he asked me, I wasn't completely sure how to answer him. Would I say yes to Sir Robert the man, or the Sir Robert of my dreams? I desperately needed to talk to someone!

Sitting in my favorite armchair I tried to think of who I could speak with. Louisa and Sarah Hurst had accompanied their husbands who had gone to see a sick uncle. Jane would not give me the candid appraisal that I needed. Elizabeth was still in Derbyshire and not expected for several more days. Kitty and Mary? I was not close enough to either to speak of something this personal (and besides Mary was in Ireland). Anne was in Dublin helping her husband select goods for the new shop. Who did that leave? I fairly leaped up when the name came to me.

"Charlotte!"

Within moments, a note was on its way to the Passmore's London house asking if I could call that afternoon. If Charlotte was surprised by the fact that I wanted to call barely 48 hours after last seeing her, the reply that I received from her did not indicate it.

When the butler showed me into the sitting room, Charlotte was playing with her son. I'm not sure just how she guessed that I wanted to talk without him present, but the little boy was soon sent off to keep his father company. Charlotte invited me to sit down and offered me a cup of tea.

The conversation began slowly, since I was not sure just how to broach such a personal subject and Charlotte was a little slow to answer the first few questions. But both of us soon warmed to the task and I laid my problem out before her. She proved to have been an excellent choice for someone to discuss the issue with, for not only did she answer all my questions, she raised a few that I had not considered in all my thinking on the matter. Before we knew it almost two hours had passed and Charlotte needed to prepare for a previous engagement. She answered my final plea of "What should I do?" with an inquiry of her own.

"What do you want to do?"

"Say yes if he asks me!" I replied.

Charlotte rested her chin on her hands for a moment, as if she was contemplating something.

"Then let me give you the finest piece of advice anyone ever gave me. You've been given a second chance at happiness. If it is what you want, what you really want, grab it with both hands and never let go."

We sat watching each other for a few seconds. Then I remembered just who had given her that advice and I let out a nervous little laugh. Charlotte merely smiled.

Easter Sunday has always been a quiet day in the Hurst household. After attending services at St. ____'s, we usually spend the remainder of the day at home. But this year I will remember forever.

The only people who ever call on Easter Sunday are Edward's family, so the fact that we had a caller who was not a relative was unusual indeed. You can imagine my shock when Sir Robert was shown into the sitting room. After spending a few minutes speaking with the family (for he is a great favorite with my nieces), he asked if he might have a word with me alone.

There was a moment's stunned silence, and then Edward's voice saying "Certainly, why don't you use the garden?" I lead the way out to the garden, with my heart beating so fast that I thought it would tear itself from my chest. "A word alone." Does this mean what I think it means?

When we arrived in the garden, Sir Robert asked me to sit down on the bench. I did so and watched him with a mixture of curiosity and anxiety. I was anxious for obvious reasons, but was growing more and more curious about why Sir Robert was pacing up and down in front of me, mumbling something I could not quite understand.

Finally, after two or three minutes had passed, he stopped pacing and stood in front of me. "The most important speech of my life", he said quietly "And I cannot think what to say!" Sir Robert got down on one knee and hesitatingly took my hand. He began to speak:

"O' my Luve's like a red, red rose, 
That's newly sprung in June; 
O' my luve's like the melodie 
That's sweetly play'd in tune, --

As fair art thou, my bonnie lass, 
So deep in luve am I 
And I will love thee still my Dear, 
Till a' the seas gang dry, --

Till a' the seas gang dry my Dear, 
And the rocks melt wi' the sun: 
I will love thee still my Dear, 
While the sands o' life shall run, --

And fare thee weel, my only Luve! 
And fare thee weel a while! 
And I will come again my Luve, 
Tho it were ten thousand mile!" **

Instinctively, I squeezed his hand as he finished and with no hesitation at all, I said, "Yes." He looked up at me and seemed confused. I repeated, with a sense of calm that I did not feel at all "Yes, I would be honored to be your wife." That radiant smile that I have come to cherish spread across his face and I slid over on the bench and helped him up so he could sit beside me.

We sat on the bench for a long moment and then we turned to each other. He leaned towards me, still hesitating somewhat and I knew what he meant to do. Our first kiss was a brief one and when we drew apart, I am sure that we wore matching dazed expressions. But then we leaned towards each other again . . .

I'm not sure how long we sat alone in the garden. After a time, I raised my head from his shoulder and said "We had best be getting back, or Louisa will think we have eloped!" He grinned, and helped me to my feet. As we made our way back to the house, I could see one of my nieces watching from the window. I suddenly felt very bold and I gave Robert a quick peck on the cheek. He turned to me, curious, but I merely smiled at him, having noticed during our sojourn in the garden that he finds my smile as intoxicating as I find his.

Whichever niece it was must have noticed and spread the word, since the family was assembled in the sitting room when we returned. Neither one of us said a word. We did not have to. As soon as we entered the room, Edward was congratulating Robert, Louisa was embracing me and my nieces were plucking at my skirts to get my attention.


Chapter 17
Monday, August 18, 1823

My last night as a single woman. I should be in bed, resting for my "big day" tomorrow. But I cannot. My emotional pendulum swings from a state of nerves so bad that I can barely think to happiness that borders on the silly! In just the last half-hour I have spent 20 minutes tensely pacing the room only to sit down and waste two perfectly good sheets of paper practicing signing my name. After all, how many ways can one write "Lady Caroline Macmillan"? At least twenty!

Finally, I forced myself to sit and write my journal. Sitting here by the fire, with my battered 1823 journal and my pen had a marvelously calming effect. But before I began to write, I took a few minutes to thumb through the entries since March 30. Pausing on April 4, I read the passage that I had copied verbatim from that morning's edition of "The Times". One phrase in particular caught my attention: " . . . announces the engagement of his sister, Miss Caroline Agnes Bingley, to Sir Robert James Macmillan . . . ".

Laying down my pen for a moment, I reflected on the week after my Easter afternoon engagement to Rob. Our return to the house after our sojourn in the garden had been a hectic one, needless to say. Edward was congratulating Rob and Louisa was embracing me, as Sarah and Caroline plucked at my skirts, eager for details. The commotion soon attracted Sam's attention and he wandered into the drawing room, leaving his books in the library.

Sam's reaction to the news was typical of him. He shook hands with Rob, and I remember thinking "Always the little gentleman!", but he embraced me tightly as soon as Caroline and Sarah had relinquished their grip on me.

A week after the announcement in the newspapers, we attended our first ball as an engaged couple. I was a bit nervous, I must admit, as it had been years since I had attended any sort of social gathering that was not family related. As we entered the ballroom, I heard with a good deal of surprise that I was once again the talk of fashionable London. The comments I overheard contained a wide variety of opinions, some good, and some bad. But many of them stung. More than one disappointed young lady or frustrated mother remarked that it was a tragedy one of London's most eligible bachelors seemed to be throwing himself away on an old maid.

Rob must have heard many of the comments and realized how much they had hurt me, even if I did my best not to show any kind of reaction. He gripped my arm a little tighter and I turned to look at him. He smiled at me, and it was all the reassurance I needed. A smile that eloquently said " I don't care what they say. I am happy with my choice."

We attended several more balls and parties that Spring, as I enjoyed my first London season in nearly a decade. My confidence was soon restored and Rob no longer felt the need to hover over me protectively. Society may have judged us to be an unusual couple, but neither of us minded.

Taking time from his Parliamentary duties, Rob showed me our London house. It was modest, even by the standards of Edward and Louisa's house, but I reminded myself that I would be the mistress of not one house, but three. It was also in need of "a woman's touch", something that Rob readily admitted as we walked through the public rooms of the dwelling.

I noticed Louisa looking at me curiously as Rob said that the house needed redecorating. When I had first moved in with her, after Charles and Jane were married, I had been full of ideas on how to redecorate her house. Considering how bad many of them had probably been, I think it was probably better that she tactfully declined!

Rob turned away for a moment and I took advantage of it to lean over and whisper in Louisa's ear "Don't worry, I won't insist on redoing the house in orange!" It was with a great deal of difficulty that she did not laugh and when my fiance was facing us again, Louisa and I were both grinning. Rob raised an eyebrow, suspecting no doubt that we had shared some sort of joke.

Sarah and Caroline, who had carried out their own exploration of the house, soon joined us. They tugged at Uncle Rob's sleeve and asked if they could see the garden, explaining that they had seen it from the windows and that "It looked very nice!" Louisa suggested that Rob and I show them the garden, saying that she would remain in the library and rest her aching feet.

After a brief tour of the garden, Rob and I were soon settled on the bench as Sarah and Caroline played nearby. Seeing that the girls were unlikely to get into any trouble for a few minutes, I asked Rob about the Edinburgh house. Within minutes, he was painting another of his exquisite word pictures and I felt as though I was intimately familiar with a house and garden that I had never seen. We sat quietly side by side for a moment and then Caroline spoke up "It sounds like you will have a beautiful house Aunt Caroline!" Rob and I were startled for a moment and then I took his hand in mine and replied, "Yes it does!"

It seems strange now, the night before my wedding, to admit that even two weeks ago, I still had a slight doubt as to why Rob wanted to get married. Did he want the true me? Or was he being a gallant gentleman, offering to marry a woman past her prime, who would never receive another offer?

I cannot help smiling as I read my entries from late July, when these doubts were expressed almost nightly. At one party I had teased him that he had never experienced the notorious "Bingley temper". He smiled and said that Charles was the most mild mannered man he had ever met. My retort had been that while that was true, it was only because I had received two shares of it. Rob had not even flinched, murmuring something along the lines of "It can't be that bad."

But it was not my temper that had caused that scene in the hallway of Louisa's home that last Friday of the season. It was my own uncertainty, and something I had intended to keep close to my heart, exposing to no one, least of all him, was brought into the open.

As had become our practice over those months, Rob had come to collect me in order to take me to another party. Louisa and Edward stayed upstairs, tending to the children, so we had been allowed a few moments of privacy. All that day, I had been nervous, since the party was to be at the same home as our "first" gathering in April. After almost three weeks of worrying, my doubts had come to a head. What if the comments I had heard at the first party we had attended were true?

Rob, bless his kind heart had seen that something was wrong. Taking me into the drawing room, he quietly asked me what was disturbing me. I had wanted to deny that anything was wrong, but before I could stop myself, it all poured forth and I told him about my uncertainties. Looking back, I am surprised at how well Rob took it. He paused a moment, and stroked my cheek, saying, "Come now, where is the brave, kind lass I fell in love with? The one I waited ten years to find?"

My voice wavered "Ten years?"

Rob identified my tone immediately. It was not one of surprise, or pity. It was one of recognition of a shared experience. He smiled. "Yes indeed. It was ten years to the day after I first dreamed of you that I saw your face."

If I had not been staring at him in wide-eyed, open-mouthed astonishment before, I was now. Somehow Rob must have taken this as an indication that I wanted him to continue, because after a brief pause for breath, he did so.

"In 1812, after I had been wounded at the Battle of Salamanca, I was sent home to recuperate. At a ball given in my honor as "the hero returned from the wars" as my father put it, I met a beautiful, vivacious young woman. I soon found myself falling in love, but I gave no indication of it to anyone. My best friend also fell in love with her and he was a successful suitor. Since he had no knowledge of my feelings for her, he asked me to stand by him at the wedding."

"I cannot imagine how difficult that could have been for you."

He smiled ruefully. "The worst afternoon of my life. Makes even Waterloo pale in comparison. Of course I did nothing to help my cause, being rude and downright uncivil on more than one occasion that day. Fortunately, many people put it down to making a little too merry the night before. But it was not until that evening that I set out to get drunk. I was on third glass of whiskey when the door opened and my brother Andrew walked in and sat down at the other end of the sofa with his own bottle. I glared at him, but he merely stated, "No man should drink alone on an occasion like this. Besides, she's not for you Rob."

"The next thing I remember is waking up the next morning fervently wishing I could die. Of course Andy's snoring from the sofa did not help matters much." He paused for a moment and then asked, "I take it from your surprised reaction that you had a similar experience?"

I nodded.

"You fell in love with someone who chose another?"

There was nothing to do now but tell him everything. I tried my best to leave the identities of the other people involved out of the story. I even attempted a bit of humor at the end, mentioning that except for an occasional glass of wine, I had not done much drinking since.

Rob put his arm around my shoulders and drew me close to him. He kissed me on the cheek and then leaned his head against mine. "You know what this means don't you?"

I smiled. "That we were somehow fated for one another?"

"Exactly."

At this point, Louisa and Edward knocked on the door, indicating it was time to go. My courage had not only been restored, it had risen to new heights. The evening, needless to say, was a success.

My last few days living with Louisa were melancholy ones. My belongings had been packed for the move to Scotland and I began to realize just how much I would miss the old familiar house and the children.

The morning we were to leave, I sat quietly in my chamber. With my possessions now on their way north, everything that had indicated that a person had lived in the room was gone. It was just another guest room now.

Louisa came looking for me and found me staring out the window. Sitting down beside me, she asked what was the matter. "I shall miss this place."

"Nonsense" Louisa started, but her voice trailed off as she recognized my expression. We sat quietly for a moment, and then as if simultaneously possessed by the same notion, we laid on the bed side by side, each of us occupying a pillow. For a few moments, it was as though someone had turned the clocks back 20 years and we were two schoolgirls having a good laugh again. But our time was cut short by a knock at the door and Edward's announcement, "It's time."

I had tea with my nieces and nephews this afternoon. If Elizabeth was confused at all by my rather unusual request that we be allowed to take tea alone, she made no mention of it. Although I would swear that I saw a rather conspiratorial wink pass between her and my nieces as she showed us into the room . . .

** "A Red Red Rose" by Robert Burns


Chapter 18
Friday, August 22, 1823

I have been rather remiss in keeping up with my journal this week. The first time in the twenty years since I began keeping it that I have missed more than one day for a reason other than illness. But I have been rather distracted at night this week. However, some minor repairs to the carriage required us to lengthen our stay in this small town, so I have decided to take advantage of the time and catch up with my narrative.

On Monday night, just as I was finishing my entry for that night, there was a knock on the door. Hurriedly I closed my journal and shoved the pages that I had been doodling on in the desk drawer before I bade the person at the door to come in. I was a little surprised to see that there was not one person at the door but three. Georgiana and Jane looked more than a little embarrassed about something, but the smirk on Louisa's face made me wary. It was one I recognized all too well because I had seen it many times before. The message behind it was clear: "You are going to squirm and I shall enjoy every second of it!" We sat by the fire and after several unsuccessful attempts to get the conversation going, a blushing Jane managed to inquire, "Is there anything you want to ask us?"

I sat back in my chair, no doubt turning as pink as Jane. Stealing a quick glance at Louisa, I saw her sitting smugly in her chair, no doubt enjoying the spectacle. I was torn about what sort of reply to make. Did I answer "yes" and subject Jane and myself to further embarrassment? Or did I answer "no" and rely upon information and gossip that I had heard over the years? (After all, one does not get to be my age without hearing something that you should not!). In the end it was the desire to wipe that smirk off Louisa's face that decided it for me. So I smiled and responded, "Thank you for the kind offer Jane, but no, there is nothing I want to ask you." Jane looked relieved and Louisa more than a little disappointed. We spoke for a few minutes longer, mostly about the last minute details that needed to be sorted out before the wedding in the morning and then they rose and excused themselves.

After they had left, I spent a few minutes wondering if I should have asked them anything. I had plenty of questions, but that look that Louisa had on her face had annoyed me to the point where I wanted to wipe it off, with any means at my disposal. Now I felt foolish. Did I sneak back to Jane or Georgiana and ask them? Or did I muster up my courage and press on? In the end, the desire not to further embarrass myself by slinking back to ask questions won out.

Tuesday morning began bright and clear. But while the weather outside was sunny and peaceful, the climate inside Pemberley was anything but serene. I was convinced, despite having attended several brides on their wedding day, that none of them could have been in a state of nervous excitement similar to mine. How Jane and Louisa kept their wits about them that morning I shall never know, as they hurried from assisting me, to getting the children ready, all the while trying to get dressed themselves.

We assembled outside and Edward, in his usual orderly fashion got everyone into the carriages. He rode with the boys, while Jane took my nieces, who looked beautiful in their new frocks with her. My last ride as an unmarried woman would be shared with Charles and Louisa. We rode in silence. I am not sure whether this was by accident or design. While I was content to sit and watch my siblings, there were one or two occasions where Charles looked like he was about to speak, but then thought better of it.

The ride to Kympton was a short one, and soon we were all milling around outside the church. Once again, Edward took charge of herding everyone inside, assisted by Charles. Soon, I was in the small room where I would wait until the ceremony began. Jane and Louisa made the last minute adjustments to my gown and to my nieces before stepping into the sanctuary. Fanny, Caroline, and Sarah giggled as they admired each other in their new dresses, pleased that they looked so grown up in them. Charles and I stood and watched them, not saying a word, but conveying our happiness through glances or expressions.

A knock on the door and the simple phrase "It's time" interrupted our little gathering. The girls rushed out to take their places, and Charles and I were alone for a moment. He kissed me on the check and asked, "Are you ready love?" I was too overcome with emotion to speak, so I nodded. We left the room and took our position, behind my nieces.

The organ began playing and the doors opened and my nieces stepped through. I followed, on Charles' arm, but within a few steps, I saw the decorations in the sanctuary. Had it not been for Charles' presence on my arm, I would have given into the temptation to stop and gape. Having attended two other weddings at the church, I knew how it could look when prepared for a wedding. But those decorations were nothing, when compared to this.

I could not stop and admire the decorations, so I contented myself with studying them as closely as I could during the walk up the aisle. Of course, I alternated this study with looking at Rob (who I must say looked splendid in his new black coat!) and searching out my friends and relatives in the crowd. They were easy to find. There were the Fitzwilliams, Anne, Charlotte, Jane, Kitty, the Darcys, and Captain Stewart, all with their children. A quick glance to Rob's side of the aisle revealed the Campbells and another woman, who I guessed to be Andrew's wife.

Then I was at the altar and Rob was at my right elbow. A hurried look at him showed that the same sense of nervous excitement that coursed through my body coursed through his. My attention was pulled away from his face as Mr. Medcalf began speaking those words that I knew so well, "Dearly beloved, we are gathered here today . . . " and I fixed my attentions on his vestments, studying them to the point where I could give an exact description of them.

While I was intently examining Mr. Medcalf's vestments, he had begun the vows. "Robert wilt thou have this woman to thy wedded wife . . . " Rob's answer was clear and loud, giving ample evidence of his happiness. "I will." The beginning of the vows had been my cue to stop looking at vestments and to start paying attention. I tried, when it was my turn to give the same indications of happiness in my answer that Rob had in his.

I was a bit surprised by Charles' reaction when it was asked, "Who giveth this woman to be married to this man?" He actually hesitated for a second before answering. With difficulty, I stopped myself from grinning as I thought "My, my Charles. What will you do when Fanny stands here?"

The rest of the vows went smoothly. When Louisa had been married, I had been young and stubborn, swearing that I would never say "and to obey" to any man. But I said it easily enough for Rob.

During the remaining prayers, I must admit that I paid more attention to my ring than to the prayers themselves. Compared to Louisa's or even to Jane's it was a simple ring, but the sight of it on my finger made my heart swell with happiness.

Except for those key memories, the ceremony was but a blur. It seems funny, but if my grandchildren ask me, what shall I tell them? Listen to me, married less than four days and already speaking about grandchildren!

Then, seemingly within mere moments of it having begun, the wedding was over and it was time for Rob and I to take our first walk as man and wife. Strangely, my first thoughts were not of our future but of a conversation that had taken place over a month before. The sight of Rob in a black coat had spurred my memories of this previous discussion.

I had noticed, during our courtship in London, that Rob always appeared to wear coats of three or four colors, with dark blue and dark green being the predominant colors in his wardrobe. I could not resist teasing him about this, hinting that he only owned four coats in total. It was one of those remarks that as soon as I had said it, I had wished I could take it back. Fearing that I had gone too far, I waited for his response. He was not angry, instead a slow smile spread across his face and he chuckled. "Lass, consider yourself fortunate that we did not meet ten years ago." This answer puzzled me. Rob was quick to elaborate. "Ten years ago," he said with a laugh, "I was still in the Army. You might have accused me of only owning one coat. A red one."

I started giggling, and soon was laughing until my sides ached. Rob looked confused. "A decade ago, orange was my favorite color and I owned several gowns in various shades of that color. You might have accused me of only owning one gown!" He pursed his lips, as he often did when thinking. "Red and orange," he said after a moment. As Rob said it, his face did a very good imitation of Sam's when he was forced to eat his vegetables. Soon we were both gasping for breath and clutching our sides. I managed to declare, between peals of laughter "Quite a sight we would have made!" "Indeed!" was all Rob could manage in return.

So, as we made our way down the aisle as man and wife, a slow grin spread across my face. Many people no doubt took it as a sign of my happiness, and I was happy. But there was another reason for the grin . . .

Our first walk together as a married couple appeared to take only seconds. I know that it took longer, but the memories of it are a blur, with the only things lodged securely in my memory being the nods that I gave as we made our way down the aisle and the silly grin on my face.

When we took our seats in the carriage, the grin must have still been there, because Rob asked about it. "Why the enormous grin Lady Caroline? Does the thought of being married amuse you?" If it had not been for his joking tone and his own smile, I might have thought that he was angry. His voice had startled me out of my reverie. "Amuse me? Oh no. I am very happy, but not amused. At least not in the way you mean. I am grinning for another reason."

Rob raised an eyebrow, and in that exaggerated brogue that always makes me laugh inquired again "So you will not tell me lass? I have ways of making you talk!" He tried to look sinister, but it only made me giggle more. "And what might these ways be dearest husband?"

Rob leaned forward and kissed me. Our lips parted, and I must have sat dazed for a few seconds, because the next thing I remember was shaking my head, as though I was trying to get my brain to work again. "Well?" he grinned. At that moment I was powerless. I would have told him anything he wanted to know. So I told him why I had been grinning as we had walked down the aisle. Rob threw his head back and laughed that rich full-bodied laugh of his. "A fine story this will make for our children and grandchildren Carrie." I leaned against him and we stayed amused by the whole idea until we arrived at Pemberley, where Elizabeth and Mr. Darcy had graciously agreed to hold the wedding breakfast.

It was when we were in the reception line that the first wisps of an unusual conversation began to reach my ears. At first, I could not see the two speakers, because they were standing behind a rather tall man. But I recognized the voices easily enough. Mrs. Lewis and Mrs. Osborn had voices that reminded me Mrs. Bennet and Mrs. Phillips years ago in Meryton.

Their discourse was obviously one that I was not intended to hear, but hear it I did. It was only fragments at first, but as I heard more, I was able to piece it together.

"I was certainly surprised to see all the ladies from Pemberley here to help decorate the sanctuary yesterday afternoon!'

"Yes, Mrs. Medcalf said that she wanted to do something special for this one and that price would be no object. So I was able to use so many of those ideas that I have been storing up. But I also mentioned that I would not have enough help, so she just smiled and said that she would take care of everything."

Mrs. Osborn laughed and replied, "I don't believe that Mrs. Smith will ever get over having a future countess working on one side of her and the lady of the manor on the other!"

Upon overhearing these statements I stood stunned in silence for a moment. I had wondered where all the ladies had gone yesterday afternoon only to receive the butler's rather enigmatic reply of "Last minute arrangements, Miss Bingley".

The idea that my friends and family would exert so much effort on my behalf left me speechless and it was with great difficulty that I wrested part of my attention away from eavesdropping and back to greeting people. Nevertheless, a large part of my concentration remained focused on the two people making their way up the line.

"I shall have to thank Lady Andrea for her wonderful ideas for decorating the altar. I had not thought of using those colors before." commented Mrs. Lewis.

Turning my head away from the two ladies, I found Mr. Bennet standing before me. He smiled and whispered "Reminds you of someone else, doesn't it?" I smiled in return, knowing whom he was referring to. Mr. Bennet then took my hands and said, "I am glad to see you finally find happiness." His statement touched me and I leaned forward and kissed him on the cheek. He laughed and stated "Now Lady Caroline, we don't want Sir Robert and Mrs. Bennet getting jealous, do we?"

The remainder of the guests passed quickly, and I tried to keep Mrs. Lewis and Mrs. Osborn from guessing that I had overheard them. Shortly before it was time to go, I beckoned Caroline over to me and whispered in her ear. She nodded that she understood, and I waited a few minutes before going to the room I had mentioned.

Stepping into the room I saw that Caroline, no doubt aided by Sarah and done an admirable job of collecting all the people that I had named. No words seemed enough to express my gratitude, but I knew that I had to say something. " I do not know what to say," I managed eventually. Kitty frowned. "It was intended to be a secret. A token of our appreciation for all that you have done for us." The expression on my face must have signaled my confusion, because one voice after another began to speak.

"You were the first one outside my family to accept me."

"You told me my fianc»e was alive."

"You found me a husband."

"You gave me the courage to truly live for the first time."

"You understood when no one else did."

Kitty was at my elbow. "Now do you see why we did this?" I nodded, trying to keep my eyes from filling with tears.

I had known that saying goodbye was going to be hard, and the scene in the library had made it no easier. We gathered near the carriage, and I saw Fanny and Sam whispering something to Rob. No doubt extracting a promise they can come visit.

Then we were on our way, driving towards Edinburgh. I asked Rob where we would be staying that first night, since I knew that the journey would take several days. He stated that on his way to Pemberley he had selected several pleasant inns for us to stay at, the one we would be stopping at on our wedding night, being perhaps the nicest one on the journey.

The inn was agreeable, and judging from the attention given to us by the innkeeper and his wife, I wondered if Rob had not made some sort of arrangements on his way to Pemberley.

We had the finest room the inn had to offer. As I stepped from my dressing room and crossed to the bed, I could not but wonder if my husband had paid extra for it. I slid into bed, wearing the new nightdress that Louisa had purchased for me. It was then that I truly began to wish that I had let Jane tell me something the night before.

I do not know what possessed me to do it, but I slid farther into the bed and pulled the covers over my head. When I had been a little girl, I had often hidden under the covers, believing that nothing could harm me there. I stayed there for a moment or two, and then I remembered something from my tomboy days, when Louisa and Charles had dared me to do something. "I am Caroline Bingley. I am afraid of nothing!" had been my battle cry. Now it was "I am Lady Caroline and I am bloody petrified!" Then I heard Rob moving about in his dressing room, no doubt ready to enter. I threw the covers back and pulled myself up, no doubt red faced. He surely saw that I was embarrassed, but thankfully did not guess the real reason for it.

The next morning I awoke with a start. The arm that possessively lay across my waist and the presence of another body in the bed confused me for a moment, before I realized where I was. I turned over carefully, trying to keep from waking Rob only to find that he was awake, watching me. He propped himself up on one elbow, and kissed me on the forehead. I pulled his arm tighter around me and sighed contentedly. "I could spend all day like this". Rob smiled and said, "Perhaps we will, when we reach Edinburgh."

The days spent in the carriage sped by. Rob talked about his time in the Army and his travels across Spain and France. I marveled at his ability to portray a place in words. The only things he seemed to have difficulty discussing were the men he had known who had been killed. It surprised me that the death that touched him the most was not that of a fellow officer, but that of an Edinburgh boy, the son of the butcher who had provided meat to the Macmillan family for years.

One afternoon I was dozing in my corner of the carriage when Rob shook me awake. "I would like to show you something". We stepped outside and then I saw it. It was the stretch of seaside that he had mentioned when we had first met at Pemberley and it was even more beautiful than I imagined. The road was quiet, so we walked along it for a time, the carriage following as I admired the view

We arrived in Edinburgh late the next morning. As the carriage was being unloaded, I saw one basket that I did not recognize. I pointed it out to Rob, and he spoke to the footman, who unloaded it. The conspiratorial look that passed between them was impossible to miss and I grew more suspicious. The basket was set before me and I opened it. A small puppy stuck its' head out. Startled, I looked at Rob. He smiled and announced that it was a wedding present from my nieces and nephews, who had thought that I might "need a keepsake from home." I had long been fond of the spaniels at Foxchase and I guessed that the puppy came from there. "True," Rob said. "But it has a name already, so you cannot pick your own name. They wanted a name that reminded them of you. So I suggested "Bydand". He saw my look of confusion and hastened to explain. "It means "steadfast". "Ahh!" was all the reply I managed before I reached into the basket and lifted the puppy out. "Let us go see our new home!"


Chapter 19, the last chapter
Saturday, December 12, 1862

Fifty years. Has it truly been fifty years since I sat in a church in Meryton, bitter at how unfairly life had treated me? It seems as though it was a lifetime ago, and of course it was. I look back now at all that has happened to me since then and I realize that I have had a good life.

While many of life's blessings may have come to me later than they do to most women, I did enjoy them--a husband who doted on me, and three children who grew up healthy. Rob, bless his memory has been gone two years now, but I do have my reminiscences, and I only need to look at my son or my youngest daughter to remember him. Rob and I enjoyed just over thirty-seven years of married life, split between Scotland and London.

I can remember how nervous I was when I first arrived at the Edinburgh house. Like many brides I was anxious when we arrived, but Rob presented me with a puppy, a gift from my nieces and nephews and Bydand was such an energetic little fellow that I seemed to absorb excess energy from him. Thus when we entered the house, I was a little more at ease.

Besides the fears that are normal for all new brides who are crossing the threshold of the house they are to be mistress of, I had a few additional ones. I knew that in the eyes of some people I would be a foreigner. For the most part, I need not have worried. The servants accepted me quickly, and I believe that the years I kept house for Charles, even if they were a decade in the past, helped to smooth the way with our redoubtable housekeeper, Mrs. Maxwell.

Knowing nothing of Edinburgh, except for what my husband had told me and what I had read, I was curious as to what my activities in the city would be. Being the mistress of a large house, would of course keep me occupied much of the time. But it was a pleasant surprise when the vicar (who I believe the Church of Scotland calls a minister, another difference I had to get used to!) called with his wife ten days after our arrival. Evidently, the Macmillans had long played a key role in several charitable organizations in the city, and the mistress of the house was expected to uphold this tradition. Rob's sister Helena had carried out the role since her mother's passing, but from that time on, the responsibility became mine.

The first few meetings were of course awkward. I was the newcomer, thrust into a leadership position mostly by tradition. But the ladies of the committee were helpful and if I made one or two mistakes, they were willing to overlook them or attribute them to ignorance. Thus I learned one of the two mottoes that came to be a beacon for all my married life, the Macmillan family motto, Miseris succerre disco, meaning, " I learn to succor the unfortunate"

We spent our first anniversary in the Highlands, and I came to love the area. So much so that we returned there every few years for the rest of our married lives. But the Highlands will always mean more to me than tranquil beauty, because the following May, our first daughter, Georgiana Charlotte was born.

I was fortunate that she was born in London, so I was able to have my family about me. Rob, like many first time fathers wanted to stay and "be helpful". Jane with a commanding tone no doubt used often on her three children ordered him to "Get Out!" and a man who had led soldiers in battle and debated the most important political issues in the land slipped out the door. If I had not been in so much pain, I would have laughed.

The birth of the fair-haired Georgiana (Rob insisted that in all other ways she resembled me) was memorable for one other incident. At some point during that day, I must have called Rob something unrepeatable. I thought nothing of it at the time until later in the summer when I received a letter from Charles. It seemed that he and Jane had just been through a blazing row (yes, the idea of them fighting at all still surprises me) and she had referred to him by the same name that I had called Rob. Charles seemed more amused than angry about the whole thing, but he did ask that I not teach Jane anymore "unladylike" phrases.

Those days were idyllic. If Rob had been disappointed that his first-born child had not been a son, he never showed it. Little Georgie as everyone called her (and many still do to this day) soon had her proud papa wrapped around her tiny finger. The artist who had painted the miniatures of my nieces and nephews had become one of the most sought after portrait painters in London. We were fortunate that he was able to paint a pair of miniatures for us, as well as a portrait of Rob and I for the Edinburgh house.

Two years after Georgiana was born, we were blessed with another daughter, Helena Louisa. She and Georgie were as different as night and day. Where Georgie was a fair-haired version of me, Helena was a dark-haired copy of her father. Like her namesake and godmother, Georgiana was quiet. Helena was a tomboy in her youth and quite a handful as she prepared for her entrance to society, so much so that her exasperated father once called her "Hell's Belle."

Just as I began to despair that I would never give Rob an heir, I became pregnant again. Four years had passed since Helena's birth, and my forty-first birthday was rapidly approaching. The doctors, fearing for my health, made me spend much of my pregnancy in bed. I was astonished to hear that Lady Andrea Fitzwilliam was in a similar condition and we spent hours each day writing each other letters about everything and anything that had happened to us. The postmasters must have been more than a little disappointed when Alice Fitzwilliam and Andrew Charles Macmillan were born within days of each other.

Andrew was his father's pride and joy. This is not to say that Rob loved his daughters less, or that he was not as proud of them. Rob had more than enough love for all three children, and he was proud of them in their own unique ways.

My son was also the cause of most of the turmoil in the house. Beginning with chasing the dog about, he moved on to tormenting his sisters. By the time he had learned to behave properly, it was time for him to go away to school. Rob had insisted that his son "be raised like a Scot". I had grown to love Scotland, but the idea that my son would be hundreds of miles away from me for months on end frightened me. In the end, we compromised on sending Andrew to Harrow. My arguments that Andrew was only half-Scottish once again fell on rocky soil when it was time for university. Rob insisted on a school in Scotland, as opposed to Cambridge, where Charles and his son William had been educated.

Andrew instead went to St. Andrew's, which was not so bad, since it was close to both Edinburgh and the country estate. After he completed his education, he made the decision that changed his life and that of his family forever.

Growing up in a period when we had only fought colonial wars in far away places like India, Andrew had his heart set on being a soldier. I remembered the heartache that Mary Fitzwilliam had been through during Waterloo and I pleaded with him to choose something else. Rob had survived both Waterloo and the Peninsular campaign, and he talked about the Army at great length, going so far as to enlist Sir James Passmore and General Sir Michael Fitzwilliam to speak with Andrew in order to give him a clear picture of what military life was like.

But Andrew had inherited a double dose of stubbornness and all our speeches were useless. In the end, Rob decided to do what he could for our son, hoping that "a few years of dreary garrison duty" would make Andrew change his mind. Since Andrew, like his father, was a superb rider, I privately hoped that we might secure him a commission in the Greys. But the cavalry proved to be too expensive and Andrew instead joined the 93rd Foot, a Highland regiment. Some of the men seemed to take an instant dislike to Lieutenant Macmillan, on the basis of his mixed Lowland/English parentage, but they slowly grew to accept him.

In the summer of 1853, Andrew proposed to Lady Alice Fitzwilliam, the daughter of Lord Matthew and Lady Andrea. She was a beautiful girl with long dark wavy hair and a complexion that showed her mother's roots. Alice and Andrew had been born days apart and had thus known each other since childhood. Their falling in love was not completely unexpected.

Something unexpected did occur the following year, as the 93rd was sent to the Crimea. Alice was with their first child and I grew increasingly worried that Andrew might be killed. Alice and I both begged him not to go, either to resign or to request a transfer to another regiment. Andrew looked at me like I had just slapped him. Pleading with Rob, begging him to use his influence in turn angered him. The night Andrew left was the only night that Rob and I spent the night in separate beds while in the same house.

Since I had been unable to persuade Andrew not to leave the 93rd, I followed the news of the regiment as best I could. That terrible day when the Light Brigade rode into the history books at Balaclava, the 93rd also made their mark. It was with an odd mix of fear and pride that I read the stories about "The Thin Red Line".

Andrew survived the Crimea unwounded, although he did fall ill several times due mostly to the appalling living conditions. Alice and I both hoped that he would come home after his experiences in the Crimea, if only so he could see his new son for the first time. But instead he was sent to India with the rest of the regiment, to help put down the terrible Mutiny.

In November 1857, Andrew and the 93rd were once again heroes, thanks to their desperate fighting to rescue the surrounded Residency at Lucknow. One bloody, all night attack won six members of the regiment the Victoria Cross before breakfast. Although he was badly wounded, Andrew was one of them.

His wounds were severe enough to require his return to England. Thus on that glorious summer day, his wounds healed enough that he only needed a cane to walk, Andrew came home. Alice and their young son James were the first to greet him as he descended the gangway. It took a great deal of time for James to feel at ease around his father, but now the two are inseparable.

Rob passed away in October 1860 after a short illness. Georgiana, like her godmother was a pillar of strength to me in those days. Andrew was asked to stand for Rob's seat in the Commons and after giving the matter a great deal of thought he agreed.

His experiences had changed him. Gone was the youthful exuberance of his earlier years, replaced by a quiet thoughtfulness that reminded me of his father. Andrew is not a gifted public speaker like Rob, but he does do well when debating issues that are close to his heart.

My dear son does have one somewhat amusing quality however. He is a grown man who still lives in mortal fear of his mother! Only this morning, he approached me, no doubt prompted by Alice or the housekeeper, to demand that I stop using one of Rob's old canes to help me about the house. (My arthritis has been giving me trouble recently and Rob's cane tends to damage the floor). I gripped my cane firmly and fixed him with my best maternal glare. The glare had a most farcical effect. My son the battle-scarred war hero practically tripped over his own feet trying to get out of the room.

I took a moment to examine the cane more closely. It had been a gift to Rob on our 25th wedding anniversary. I read the inscription, faint, but still readable: Nemo me impune lacessit. It was the motto of Rob's old regiment, which translated as "No one provokes me with impunity". But it had a meaning for me as well. I had learned, mostly with Rob's patient coaching to control my temper. There were still people who had felt the sting of Caroline Bingley's famous tongue, but they were the only ones foolish enough to truly provoke me.

After scaring Andrew half out of his wits, I rose with difficulty and made my way upstairs to get dressed. Tonight was the 50th anniversary of Jane and Charles and the Darcys. Most of the extended family was there.

I sat in my usual spot by the fire with Louisa and Charlotte. "The widow's corner" as Charlotte called it. General Fitzwilliam had dubbed us "The Old Woman's Club". When asked by Louisa if he would like to join us, he smiled. "Fifty years ago, it would have been pistols at dawn if someone had called me that." But he joined us as we watched the other members of our generation on the dance floor.

The years had been good to the Darcys. Mr. Darcy was nearly as handsome now as he had been five decades before and Elizabeth still had that glint in her eye. Charles is a bit stooped, but his spirit has not left him. After watching them for a time, I closed my eyes and thought of Rob. We so liked to dance. When I opened my eyes, Louisa was smiling at me. She leaned over and whispered "Thinking of old times?" and I nodded before wiping away a tear.

But Lady Andrea Spencer nee Fitzwilliam has outdone us all. After burying Lord Matthew, her husband of over 40 years, she remarried, to a charming if elderly Duke. It was difficult to say whose children were more shocked by the move, but both of them seem happy and Charlotte and Louisa have both asked if John has any brothers who are available. He just throws back that handsome silver head of his and laughs.

I cannot help but think that life had been good to me indeed as I sit here watching, trying to remember as many details as possible. Tomorrow, I believe I will sit my granddaughters down and tell them a story. A tale about an embittered woman who dreamed of her Prince Charming. Some fairy tales, after all, come true.

My thanks to Annie, Lise and Peg, whose stories helped me to see Caroline as something other than the wicked witch of P&P. And to that Caroline hater par excellence, Dani who told me I was on the right track when she said she liked my Caroline.

************

Finis


© 2001 Copyright held by author
         