TITLE: Pride & Prejudice Sisters
AUTHOR: By Clairee
DATE: 2000

It was late September, the trees swayed in wind out a window of Pemberley. The last of the morning fog was slowly disappearing. Elizabeth was sitting with Georgiana at the piano forte while Georgiana was learning a new piece. Elizabeth turned to Georgiana as she finished, smiled and said to her new sister, "It is true, my dear, that you play very well. I am exceedingly proud of your determination."  Georgiana beamed from the complement of one that she admired so much. Just then Jane, who was visiting her sister at Pemberley, burst through the door with an air of urgency about her.  Seeing Georgiana, she made an effort to smooth over her flustered appearance and said, "Dear Georgiana, can you spare my sister for one minute I have something I would speak to her about."  "Of course, I should not dare keep her away," was the reply. Bewildered by her sister's request, Lizzy excused herself from Miss Darcy's presence and followed her sister outside.  "Take a turn with me Lizzy and offer your advice to me."  "About what, dear Jane, do not let yourself be so upset."  "Here, Lizzy, look at what I have just received from Caroline Bingley. I know not what to make of it."  Elizabeth took the letter and began to read.   My dear sister, I was so happy when I heard that you were at Pemberley. I am passing through those parts in a fortnight and would love to spend a day with you. I have missed your company so much my dear Jane. Life has been very dull without you and my brother. Louisa and I have often talked of you and wondered how you are getting along. We hope to hear from you soon. Yours etc.  "I cannot believe it, what could have brought about this change in her manner. I thought that she despised me especially after marrying her brother. But perhaps I wrong. Maybe we have been deceived," Jane said with hope in her voice as she turned down the lane.  Elizabeth stopped her. "You are too good. Believe that if you want to Jane, but I cannot forget how abominably rude she was to you in London. Do not tell me you don't remember, I know you do."  Jane looked away, and then said "But Lizzy, she is my husband's sister perhaps we can start anew. What shall I write in return? I fear that if it is just Caroline, Louisa and myself there will be some awkward silence the whole time on my part but I know how much you dislike her."  Elizabeth, knowing exactly what her sister wanted her to say, replied "But for you my dear Jane, I would endure even the company of Mr. Collins, Lady Catherine and Miss Bingley together." She then reasoned,"Since we cannot be sure of her motives I suggest that you should invite her here. Then there will be many people to make conversation including her brother, whom I'm sure she is anxious to see as would any sister." Elizabeth sighed "And when she is gone we laugh at how foolish we have been."  Jane smiled warmly at her sister and said, "Yes, I think that is best" They turned merrily to walked back to house where Georgiana's playing could be heard as they opened the door.  the end 
	◦	 © 2000 Copyright held by author  
	◦	  