TITLE: Family Affairs
AUTHOR: By Daniela
DATE: 1997

	◦	Part 1|Part 2|Part 3| 
 Part 1 The Darcys and the Bingleys had just left the church in their carriage. All the relatives, friends and well-wishers were starting to leave, and very soon all that was left was a tiny group composed of the Bennets, the Philipses and the Lucases. Julianne Philips sighed and turned towards her brother, Jeremy, who was standing beside her. The eighteen year old twins were the children of Mrs Bennet's sister, the notorious gossip. However, they had none of their mother's vulgarity, and had been away from her influence for a long time. In fact, Julianne and Jeremy had spent most of their adolescence in Scotland, living with their father's aunt, who had almost adopted them and given them the education they would have most certainly lacked had they stayed in Meryton. Jeremy was very soon to leave for Oxford, while Julianne...well Julianne's future was a bit hard to determine.  In fact, while her parents (especially her mother) wished her to follow her cousin's footsteps and get married, Julianne was in no hurry to commit herself to the duties expected from a girl of the time. She was sincerely attached to her brother, and had been influenced greatly by him and his friends in her manners and behaviours. Although she had been educated by the best governesses, she didn't really possess the demeanor that was attached to the refined ladies that were seen in society, and had shocked many of her acquaintances with her talents at billiards, with which she often beat her brother and his peers.  Now, Julianne looked at Jeremy and asked, "Shall we walk it home, Jer? I don't think I can stand any more of this!" The words "ten thousand a year" seemed to be echoing around. Jeremy rolled his eyes and gave her a small wink.  "Sure, let me just invent an excuse for mother."  Julianne sighed impatiently and gave him a small push. "Let's just go!" she exclaimed and then looked at her mother. "Mamma! Jeremy and I are going to walk it home, do not wait for us!" And they were off before the overly excited Mrs Philips could say a word.  As they walked on, Julianne suddenly started pulling off the pins and ribbons that had held her light brown hair in place! "Damn these pins!" she said crossly as she shook her unruly mane.  "Ju!" said her brother, a bit reproachful. He loved his sister's rebellious spirit, but he really wished she would be more discreet in her observations.  Julianne grinned at him good naturedly. "Sorry," she offered and they walked on, both thoroughly enjoying the company of the other. Contrary to what many though, Jeremy was the more docile of the two, while Julianne led the way with her temper and unrestrained character. "You know, I really think I should have got to know Lizzie and Jane better," she remarked. "Having such delightful cousins and not really knowing them seems such a waste!"  "You're right, but it was hard to keep contact while we were away, and remember we have only been here a week!"  "I know that! I'm sure I'll make up for the lost time with Jane, but with Lizzie...she's gone off to Derbyshire now," she said regretfully. From this last week, she had realized that she might have lots in common with Elizabeth, even more than with Jane, whose character and amiability secretly reminder her of her brother. She grinned now, remembering the rather unusual way she had met her cousins' fiances four days before.  She and Jeremy had been on one of their long rambles. It had rained the day before and the roads were muddy and full of puddles. As they walked, Julianne spotted a rather large puddle ahead of them, at the intersection that led to Netherfield, the estate owned by Jane's fiance. "Look Jer! A puddle! I have to go splash!" she exclaimed. This was a maddening habit that she had since her childhood days and was one that still appealed. In vain were Jeremy's protests; she splashed in the puddle and starting kicking the water towards her brother. So caught was she in the action that she failed to see the two most esteemed gentlemen of the county trotting slowly on their horses. They looked on, astonished at this girl who was kicking water towards another boy, and laughing helplessly at the same time. Her back was towards them, but suddenly the boy spotted them, and with discreet gestures, signalled her to look behind her. The girl stopped splashing abruptly and slowly turned around, a sheepish grin marking her embarrassment while she stood ankle deep in water and mud.  "You must be Mr Darcy and Mr Bingley," she began, trying to appear nonchalant. "I'm Julianne Philips, and very pleased to make your acquaintance"  That incident still made the twins blush, but Julianne also realized at that moment the fine men her cousins were going to marry. Mr Darcy and Mr Bingley's reaction at the time was one which for her had been wholly unexpected. Instead of looking down on her, Mr Bingley had fallen into fits of friendly laughter, while his more reserved friend had grinned and passed on a comment, which she had not understood, embarrassed as she had been. They had dismounted and walked along with them towards Longbourn. Jeremy had picked up a conversation with Mr Bingley, and she had found herself in the society of Elizabeth's fiance.  There was an awkward pause until Julianne cleared her throat and started to formulate an apology. "I guess this is not the way I would have liked to meet you, Mr Darcy," she said ruefully, although unable to repress a small smile.  "Well, I must admit I was rather surprised in seeing you and your brother so engrossed in kicking muck about," he said grinning. He had found Julianne's smile infectious.  "No! Do not blame Jeremy. I have been told by most of my governesses that I am most of the times too unruly for my own good, even when I was in Scotland," she explained.  "You lived in Scotland then?"  "Oh yes! For about eight years I think. In fact, I don't really remember much of my life in Meryton." She kicked a stone energetically. "I've been told not to whistle, to sit straight, to talk when I spoken to and to refrain from kicking stone about!" The last part of the sentence was flourished with a vicious kick to a large stone that caused her to grimace. Seeing her wince with unspoken pain, Darcy could not help laughing loud; he liked Elizabeth's cousin already. She was not really unruly, just a ... natural. She behaved in the way she wanted without really creating trouble, and her cheerful disposition made her be liked by almost everyone who knew her. With a little refining and encouragement to take more care of her appearance, Julianne Philips would undoubtedly become an educated, well-mannered and extremely attractive lady. After breaking the ice, they started a friendly argument on books (to Darcy's surprise, Julianne was an avid reader with a very good taste for books). Darcy described his library at Pemberley and Julianne contributed by telling him of the books she had read and her favourite writers.  When they reached Longbourn, they were greeted by Elizabeth and Jane, and the former joined in the conversation over dinner, making Julianne regret all the more not having got to know her cousin better. The conversation was light and pleasing, and throughout the days that preceded the wedding, Julianne passed a lot of her time with Elizabeth and Darcy, while, of course, having the decency of allowing them some privacy.  They both grew to like her immensely, and she was immensely gratified when, on their wedding day, they had graced her with a small, private wave before leaving in their carriage and turning their full attention towards each other. 
	◦	 Part II The October air hung heavily on Meryton. The past week had seen a drastic change in the weather, and in Julianne's mood. This had been the last week before Jeremy's departure for Oxford University. She had tried to match her brother's enthusiasm as well as she could, but was many times caught in a melancholy that was totally new to her. The twins had been never separated from each other, and what saddened Julianne the most was the fact that she seemed to be the only one from the two to be dreading the separation.  On the day of Jeremy's departure, she entered his room and found him packing the last odds and ends in his trunks. She looked at him silently, not quite knowing what to do or say. He saw her staring and grinned. "Why Ju, you're at a loss for words. That is a surprise!" he teased. The expected (physical) retaliation did not follow, and he looked at her closely, obviously concerned and suddenly realized what was wrong with his sister. "Hey, Julianne, don't tell me you're pining for me! We can always write really often," he said trying to cheerful.  Julianne was rather startled at the accuracy with which Jeremy had read her mind. She suddenly realized that the sadness that she was feeling was mirrored in the eyes that were so like her own. How couldn't she have seen it before? She gave him a watery smile. "Will you promise me not to drink too much and not to engage in any fights?" she asked, a little hint of her old self seeping through.  Jeremy ruffled her hair affectionately, making it in more of a mess than it was before. "How can I fight if I don't have my little sister to defend?"  "Oh, that is swe---what do you mean by little sister? For your information, I was the first one to be born, at least according to Mamma!" she exclaimed.  Her brother laughed, although he could have cried at that moment. This playful banter was something he would miss dreadfully. "I will miss you Ju, you know that, don't you?"  Julianne nodded, and the twins hugged each other awkwardly. They were very close, but much more prone to tease and bicker than to show affection in such a way. They grinned at each other and Jeremy turned back to his trunks, but this time with his sister to get in the way.  The carriage left, and Jeremy with it. Mrs Philips dabbed her eyes and consoled herself in the arms of her sister, all the while crooning about her dear, dear boy, while at the same time Mrs Bennet was twittering about the advantage of having a son, and how, had her daughters not married so advantageously, she would have been sent off to live in misery by the odious Collinses. On hearing the ominous mention of marriages, Julianne hurried off to her room to get her bonnet and go out for a ramble. She finally got away from the clutches of her well wishing mother and aunt, who trotted behind her indomitably. "I'm off for a walk," she exclaimed impatiently, and opened the door, only to be faced by light yet steady drizzle of rain with grey clouds that seemed to be approaching threateningly. "Maybe not," she said, sighing deeply and slowly readjusted the route towards her bedroom.  Once inside, she threw herself on her bed and stared at the ceiling. She could hear her mother's laughter from downstairs. "Trust Mamma to get over the separation so quickly," she grumbled to herself and got up abruptly to stare out of the window. "How on earth did I usually pass the time on rainy days?" she asked no one in particular. On a sudden impulse, she went up to her writing desk and started reading the letters she had received in the last months. Most of them were from Elizabeth, who wrote to her regularly every few weeks. Julianne was also honoured in receiving some occasional letter from her esteemed husband. Though their writing styles differed greatly, the happiness and mirth seemed to overflow in their letters, both in Lizzie's lively accounts of her married life and in Darcy's more elaborate way of expressing himself, thus convincing Julianne that married bliss was not something idyllic, but fortunately experienced by two people whom she held very high in her esteem.  The more she reread their letters, the more she realized how much she yearned for their company. She was often a visitor at Netherfield and she became truly attached to the Bingleys, but it was Jeremy who had been the more comfortable of the two, finding in Mr Bingley a most appreciated equal, both in character and intelligence. Her rather unrestrained character made her often disagree with the amiable docility possessed by the other three. She was sure that she had much more in common with the Darcys.  Elizabeth's expected letter came a couple of days later. Julianne broke the seal eagerly, and her eyes scanned it rapidly. What she read filled her with incredible joy.   My dearest cousin, I sincerely hope that this letter finds you and the family well. I expect that Jeremy has now left for Oxford, and both I, and my husband can imagine the loss you may be feeling. I know that it is very hard to be separated from a person you hold dear, but that doesn't mean that the affection has to decrease. You can surely see for yourself that Jane and I are as close as ever and are still able to discuss our present lives through other ways of communication.  However, I can hardly bear the thought of you having to pass the months preceding and following Christmas on your own, or (worse still) at the mercy of well wishing relatives (dear Julianne, I do not think I should be more explicit) and I, and of course my husband, would dearly love you to join us for a couple of months at Pemberley. Please do not disappoint us, and give us your consent as quickly as possible!  Your cousin  Elizabeth.  The bustle and excitement that this letter brought is not too hard to imagine, especially by the fact that Mrs Philips alternated sobs and affectionate advices to her daughter by equally passionate entreaties to hurry up and leave for Pemberley, and maybe meet "a nice young gentleman" in Derbyshire. Julianne bore this with great patience, mostly because of the reward that lay ahead. Hardly a week passed from Julianne's answer to her cousin's letter that she was safe and gratefully peaceful in a carriage that was to take her to the wonderful estate she so wished to see. 
	◦	 Chapter 3 "Elizabeth! Will you please calm down? I'm sure Mrs. Reynolds will inform us of Julianne's arrival," said Darcy, as he followed his wife's impatient pacing of the drawing room floor.  "Oh! I can hardly wait dear!" she exclaimed, craning her neck to look out of the window, hoping to see the approaching carriage.  "I would never have imagined you to be so eager for your cousin's arrival," her husband replied, smiling.  "Well, Georgiana has been gone off to the Fitzwilliams for hardly a week and I already miss her terribly," admitted Elizabeth. "It will be so awfully nice to have a girl to keep me company and share secrets with!"  Darcy pretended to be offended by the remark. "What do you want a girl for when you have me? I always thought to be a good keeper of secrets!" he exclaimed.  Elizabeth smiled patiently and wrapped her arms round his neck. "Oh, I can assure that you are more than enough," she teased. "But there are some things that can only be shared between women."  "Like what?"  She rolled her eyes. "Well, things like giggling for the most stupid things, gossiping, trying hundreds of bonnets and choosing none, you know Ò girl things! I had got used to doing them with Georgiana and now I will have Julianne!" she exclaimed happily.  Darcy tone became softer. "And I've never seen my sister so happy as she was these last months when she had you to share girl things with ," he said as he kissed her softly. "Thank you, my love."  Elizabeth smiled deeply into his eyes, happily knowing that she still had the power to bewitch him completely. "No, thank you," she whispered as she responded with a deeper kiss. "For everything," she added when she pulled away. This romantic interlude was abruptly interrupted by Mrs. Darcy herself, when she suddenly caught sight of the approaching carriage from the window and with a delighted "She's here!" ran out of the room, dragging her ever-complying husband with her.  Julianne could hardly contain her excitement as the carriage approached Pemberley. The setting sun seemed to tint the whole estate, turning everything aglow. She found the lake enchanting as it reflected the fiery colours of the sky unto the walls of the grand house. As the carriage drew nearer, she discerned the figures of her cousin and her husband, waiting for her outside, and she suddenly felt filled with happiness and anticipation for the months that were to come. The carriage finally stopped, and Julianne flew out, finding herself in the arms of Elizabeth, who embraced her tightly. "Oh Julianne! I'm so happy to have you here, you haven't changed a bit!"  Mr. Darcy's welcome was much more restrained, but the grin he gave her was enough to show her that Elizabeth was not the only one happy with her arrival. Julianne looked around questioningly. "Isn't Georgiana here?" she asked.  "My sister went to visit my cousin's family, but is to return in time for the Christmas festivities," explained Darcy.  Julianne's countenance didn't lose its usual cheerfulness and replied, "Well I guess I must wait for some weeks before making her acquaintance. I won't tire her so easily then!"  They all went inside, where Julianne was introduced to Mrs. Reynolds and taken to her room. She was amazed with the luxury with which it was furnished and the comfort it pervaded. The Darcys certainly know how to treat their guests, she thought, as she inhaled the fresh scent of flowers that had filled the whole room. "Elizabeth, this is wonderful," she said quietly, still enthralled by it all.  "I'm glad you like it," her cousin replied. "I expect you must be famished, after this long journey!" she added.  Julianne's eyes shined at the mention of food, and nodded her head unabashedly. Elizabeth laughed and held out her arm for her. "Let's go down to dinner, shall we?" Dinner with the Darcys was a jolly affair, and conversation flowed easily between them. Julianne felt extremely comfortable even in Darcy's presence, and thus confirmed her favourable opinion of his manners and disposition. After dinner, they all sat in the drawing room, where Julianne related all that was happening in Longbourn and in Meryton and the latest news she had had from her brother. Jeremy's letter had arrived to her just before her departure, and she was happy to find out that he was settling well at Oxford, and very satisfied with his new life there. After some time, she was overcome with the fatigue of the journey, and before she was able to stop herself, she gave out a huge yawn. "I'm sorry," she said sheepishly. "Do not think that I am bored or anything, but I feel suddenly incredibly sleepy."  Elizabeth found herself yawning too, and stretched her arms in front of her. "Sleep does seem appealing to me too, Fitzwilliam. Do you think we should retire?"  "Whatever you wish my dear," he replied and added with a wide grin, "As usual."  Julianne laughed at this cheerful remark and went quietly up to her room.  The next morning dawned bright and cloudless, though a little cold. Elizabeth entered Julianne's room quietly to wish her a good-morning. The curtains were still drawn, and her young cousin seemed to be peacefully sleeping. "Julianne? Are you asleep?" she called softly.  Julianne grunted and buried herself deep under the covers. "Ju zissleep," she slurred.  "Then it's time for her to wake up!" exclaimed Elizabeth, drawing back the curtains. "Come on sleepyhead, it's a wonderful day!"  Julianne sat up, and slowly clambered out of the warm bed, still clutching the blankets around her. She walked, with some difficulty, towards Elizabeth and the window, only her face and mass of tangled hair visible in the midst of bedclothes. She glanced at her and groaned. "Lizzy, how you manage to look gorgeous so early in the morning is quite beyond me," she remarked, blowing a lock of hair from her nose.  Her cousin laughed and looked out of the window, entranced. "Look at this," she whispered.  Julianne looked out, and gave a small gasp. Her bedroom overlooked the woods surrounding the house, and the glassy lake in the clearing. It seemed to her as if nature and civilization combined together, to give the Pemberley estate the beauty it was so loved for. "And you are Mistress of all this," she remarked softly.  Elizabeth looked at her, her eyes shining happily. "Sometimes I can hardly believe it, I am unable to believe that so much happiness can be found in life ..." she trailed off, but suddenly recollected herself. "Sorry, I was just blabbing," she said cheerfully. She kissed Julianne on the cheek, and gave her a small wink. "Breakfast will be served in half an hour, be ready." With that, she left the room.  Julianne turned to look at herself in the mirror, and saw the dreadful state she was in. HALF AN HOUR?  Julianne found breakfast to as entertaining as dinner the evening before. She managed to dress and look presentable in record time and was not more than a few minutes late. She was too hungry to join in much of the conversation, and Elizabeth and Darcy took the opportunity to discuss some affairs concerning the running of the estate. Julianne was surprised to find that Darcy encouraged, even asked for, his wife's opinions about the subject. Pemberley, she was pleased to note, was completely and absolutely run by the joined efforts of Mr. and Mrs. Fitzwilliam Darcy.  After breakfast, she went out to explore the grounds that surrounded the house and left them to discuss their affairs in private. Some time later, Darcy and Elizabeth went out to the orchard to talk to the gardener about the planting of some new trees, and were surprised to find Julianne under a large apple tree, looking at the branches dismally. "What's the matter Julianne?" asked Elizabeth, puzzled.  Her cousin looked at them guiltily, but refrained from replying. Darcy looked up curiously. "Uh--isn't that your bonnet up their on that branch?" he asked.  Julianne clasped her hands behind her back helplessly and nodded, blushing furiously. Her indomitable cousin-in-law continued in his line of questioning. "And how came it to be up there?" he inquired.  "The wind...it b-blew it straight off my head," was the reply.  Elizabeth and Darcy looked around them and arched their eyebrows; the air was still and not even the lightest leaf seemed to move. "The air is uncommonly still this morning," Darcy persisted, and Elizabeth couldn't help giving him a mock glare.  Julianne cringed and dug up the earth with her toe, wishing to dig a hole large enough to give her some cover from her cousins' penetrating gaze. "I was ... tossing it about ... sir," she murmured.  Elizabeth laughed while Darcy asked "Whatever for?" in sheer astonishment.  "Habit...sir."  With his tall frame, he had no real trouble in getting it from the branch, and as he calmly dusted away the dry leaves from the bonnet, he remarked calmly, "Your habits are always of a very perturbing nature Julianne. You will never refrain from amazing me." With this he handed her her bonnet, and they moved on, as if nothing happened, leaving Julianne trying to wonder whether to laugh at herself or cry with embarrassment.  That night, as she lay in bed, Julianne couldn't help laughing at the incident, and found herself all of a sudden engulfed in this aura of warmth and happiness that seemed to invade the house. This is all my cousin's doing, she thought sleepily. Will I ever be able to make someone happy, like Elizabeth did to Darcy?  Before she could formulate an answer, she fell into a deep and dreamless sleep, and thus concluded her first day at Pemberley. 
	◦	 Chapter 4 An uneventful week passed since Julianne's arrival at Pemberley. The weather was still quite bright for that time of the year, but after sunset, a sudden onset of cold would remind the inhabitants of Derbyshire that November was approaching fast, and with it bring the storms and downpours which characterize the English climate. Sunset was the favourite part of Julianne's day. After a whole morning spent either walking the grounds or visiting Lambton with Elizabeth, or else even on an occasional ride with Mr Darcy (though he was very busy at this time of the year and spent most of his mornings in his study, either with his stewards or with his lawyers), she left the late afternoons all to herself. Her greatest pleasure was to sit down on the golden carpet of crackling leaves that had fallen from the large oak in a concealed part of the grounds. Julianne would sit there, at times reading Jeremy's cheerful letters, other times just sitting there, inhaling the fresh air and toss the orange leaves around, happy and at peace with all the world.  One morning, Julianne woke up to the sound of thunder, and looked out to find the dismal scene of dark clouds, flashing lightning and torrential rain. All that was gold and brown and orange was turned into dreary grey, and the leaves that had given her so much pleasure and comfort were completely washed away by the heavy downpour. This bleak weather dampened her spirits considerably and she was not able to conceal it during breakfast. The Darcys were, as usual, unaffected by their surroundings and chatted cheerfully.  "I'll take advantage of the rain to make some alterations to that vile shawl Julianne insisted on buying," Elizabeth was saying.  Julianne looked at her indignantly. "Elizabeth! We had been in that shop for well over an hour|! We couldn't just leave empty-handed could we? That would have been so embarrassing," she exclaimed.  "So you just picked up the first thing you saw, right?" remarked Darcy. "Well your shawl is a very welcome addition to the other worthless things Georgiana buys to save herself from similar embarrassment when visiting Lambton," he added with a small laugh.  "Why, I might even teach Julianne how to sew," remarked Elizabeth, with a mischievous look in her eyes. She and her husband couldn't help laughing at the horror stricken face of their young cousin.  It was still raining heavily hours later, and a very bored Julianne kept looking out of the window, while Elizabeth tried to concentrate in dissecting the unfortunate shawl that had fallen into their hands. "The rain won't end just because you want it to, Ju," she remarked, using the term of endearment that Jeremy so often addressed her with. Julianne just gave her a intelligible reply and a bored sigh. "Please do something, I can't stand seeing you walking from window to window! Why don't you come and read a book?"  "Read them all ... almost."  "Very funny. Start embroidering something then."  "You beat me Lizzie, that was "extremely" funny."  Elizabeth got fed up and sat up suddenly. "Come with me, there is something you still haven't seen in this house," she said.  Elizabeth had the satisfaction of seeing her idea work to perfection. The gallery did indeed attract her cousin's attention, and after an hour, they were still there, examining the portraits closely, while Julianne commented on the hideous clothes, the large noses and the incredible dark hair. "I must say that dark hair has been a male Darcy streak for centuries," she remarked. "Oh! You're lucky, the dignified nose has only been there for the last two generations," she teased.  Her cousin laughed. "I do believe that my husband is the first Darcy to have the soft dark eyes streak though," she said cheerfully.  Julianne arched an eyebrow. "It is up to you to start the trait," she said. Then seeing her cousin blush, she quickly changed the subject. "Who is that gentleman in the portrait next to Mr Darcy's father?"  Elizabeth looked at the portrait Julianne was pointing at. "Oh, that is Fitzwilliam's uncle. He is his father's younger brother, and he owns an estate in the north. He is a widower, and has one son, Robert, who is now about two and twenty I guess."  Darcy joined them suddenly, having finished most of his work in the study. He gave his wife and affectionate kiss, and Julianne could hardly keep from rolling her eyes at this unabashed show of love that her cousins seemed to bestow on each other ever so often.  "I was just telling her about your uncle Philip, dear," explained Elizabeth, after Darcy's enquiry as to what they had been up to.  Her husband looked surprised. "It's funny you should mention him," he replied. "For I have just received a letter from him. It seems that the old chap is going to visit the continent during the winter months and is in fact soon to leave for the South of France. It seems that the doctor advised him a change of climate. After all, he didn't come to our wedding because of the sever attack of flu he had at the time."  "Is Robert to accompany him my dear?"  "Uh no, that's what I came to tell you. I took the liberty of inviting Robert over to pass the Christmas festivities with us, I hope you do not mind," said her husband cautiously.  "Oh not at all! I'll finally get to meet this famous cousin of yours, and I'm sure Georgiana would be glad to have so many young people around her during Christmas," replied Elizabeth enthusiastically. "Why! We could even invite Jeremy too!"  Julianne's countenance lit up with this last remark, but there was still a point that had entertained her indomitable curiosity. "But tell me Mr Darcy, is your uncle to travel to the continent all alone?" she asked.  Darcy blushed. "Uh, no he is going with an ... acquaintance of his," he mumbled.  Julianne and Elizabeth simultaneously arched an eyebrow and mouthed "lover" at each other, earning a reproachful, but also embarrassed look by Mr Darcy. "Shame!" said Julianne teasingly. "He must be well near sixty now!" With that, she gave a cheerful chuckle and ran up to the comfort of the library, leaving Elizabeth and Darcy to discuss their Christmas plans, or whatever a married couple has to discuss, she chided herself wickedly.  A couple of days later, she entered from a hasty ramble she had made around the orchard (she had taken the opportunity of a brief interval of the rain), to find Elizabeth walking briskly towards the drawing room, with her husband hot on her trail. "I can't believe you could have done anything so incredibly foolish!" he cried. Elizabeth burst into the drawing room and slammed the door behind her. Darcy caught Julianne's astonished stare and snapped quickly. "Excuse us for a moment. it seems that your cousin and I are about to have a little spat. It won't take a minute I assure you." With that, he slammed the door in her face.  Julianne could hear some voices pass through the door.  "...accepting Lady Catherine's self invitation? Elizabeth how could you?"  "It is only a stop on her way to the Fitzwilliams! And anyway, she's your aunt after all!!"  "As if I ever cared about that before!"  "You did invite Robert without consulting me didn't you?"  "Oh! So that is what it is all about isn't it? Well I can assure you that Robert Darcy is much more civil than that self proclaimed ego maniac and her sniveling daughter!"  "I am only accepting her here to show her that I'm not the horrible creature she thinks you married!" And with that, Elizabeth suddenly burst into tears. "And she will only be here for three days!" she wailed.  Mrs Reynolds walked leisurely towards Julianne. "Mrs Reynolds, does this happen often?" she asked in a small voice.  "OH no Miss Philips. But do not worry yourself, Mr and Mrs Darcy never remain angry at each other for long. In fact, the Master's resolve always melts with Mrs Darcy's rare tears," she answered cheerfully.  To be sure, the only sounds that could be heard from the drawing room were Elizabeth's stifled sobs, and the Darcy speaking in a soft soothing tone. When even these noises subsided, Julianne chuckled softly and went up to her room to get ready for dinner. Peace at Pemberley had been restored, but still, she wondered, what could be so bad in a visit from Lady Catherine de Bourgh? 
	◦	 Chapter 5  Dear Jeremy, I'm sorry that I didn't write to you for this last week. However, I am glad to see that you are settling down so well in your new life. I am also very happy at the moment. This visit at Pemberley is going as well as I had ever hoped. Elizabeth and Mr. Darcy are doing their utmost to ensure that I lack absolutely no comfort or pleasure and I must say that they are exceeding extremely well! I do sometimes feel a bit lonely without you since there are some things that can't be shared with anyone else except for a well loved brother, especially if he has the extremely generous tendency of covering up for his most grateful sister! However, on the whole I am behaving really well and have not got into any real trouble. It has been raining for several days now, and I'm still waiting impatiently for the first snowfall.  We are soon to have company at Pemberley. Elizabeth has accepted a sort-of self invitation (I am wise enough not to question the habits of the people of high social standing) from Mr. Darcy's aunt, a certain Lady Catherine de Bourgh. Most surprisingly, he was quite opposed to this idea, and from what I could gather, she is somewhat connected to a time before his engagement to our cousin. Both seem very disinclined to be explicit, and I prudently decided not to pursue the subject.  The other visitor is Mr. Darcy's cousin, Robert Darcy. Elizabeth seemed very eager to favour me with any information regarding this young man and his family and it seems only natural to me to pass it on, because I must admit, I found it quite amusing. He is two and twenty, fresh from Cambridge (unfortunately the Darcys seem to have a certain partiality towards Oxford's rival university) and he's the son of the late Mr. Darcy's younger brother. The most interesting part of the history concerns his father. This esteemed old chap is now almost sixty years of age, but is at the moment touring the continent with one of his many mistresses (this information was "maliciously" bestowed to me by Elizabeth). He is in fact an awful womanizer, and after marrying late, and losing his wife with Robert's birth, he has returned to the habits of his manhood, and left his son to drift off in whatever direction he pleased. I am now impatient to meet this Robert fellow, because I have no idea what to expect. Well, to say the truth, I have this picture of a cocky, strutting flirt, but I'm trying as much as I can to be a bit more optimistic.  Well, my wait won't be too long because, unfortunately for Mr. Darcy, his cousin announced that the most convenient day for his arrival would be on the same one as his aunt's! Mr. Darcy's misfortune, according to him, has reached an insurmountable peak!  I have to leave you now; Elizabeth is calling me to help her in something or other. She is all in a flurry these days, trying to organize everything perfectly for the visitors and I can't help pitying the servants Ò and her husband.  Wishing you all my sisterly love,  Julianne   The day for the arrival of Lady Catherine and Robert Darcy arrived. Elizabeth was rushing around the house making the last preparations, and making the most bizarre requests to the servants. When at last Julianne couldn't take her panic any longer, she sought refuge in the library, only to find Mr. Darcy there.  He looked up and gave her a resigned smile. "I guess we're both here for the same reasons," he remarked.  "Mr. Darcy, I seem to be always in somebody's way today!" replied Julianne, frustrated.  "Well I'm here to take care of my mental well-being," he joked.  "Would you mind terribly if I went out for a bit? I promise I'll be here in time to welcome your guests," she said, looking out of the window. The rain had finally stopped and the sun was making tentative attempts to shine behind the scurrying clouds.  "Oh not at all, Julianne, go ahead and savour the peace, for I'm afraid you'll have to do without it for quite some time!" Elizabeth suddenly called him from another room. "In fact, if I weren't already wanted, I would be very much inclined to join you!"  Julianne breathed the fresh air deeply. She hadn't been out of doors for days and she was glad for this moment of solitude. She shivered a bit when the cold wind bit into her but quickly warmed herself with a brisk pace and an occasional run. She spent some time walking about the grounds and found herself in the woods on the far end of the estate. The storms of the past days had uprooted some trees, and had left others at a precarious angle. It was the first time she had walked so far from the house and was turning to go back when she suddenly heard a scream and a crash from not very far off.  A child's voice could be heard calling for help and crying piteously. "I hear you!" Julianne shouted in reply. "Keep talking to me!" The child kept shouting and Julianne was able to trace the direction from where the voice was coming. All of a sudden she came face to face with a young girl, who was trapped under a dead, uprooted tree. She recognized the girl as being little Jenny Martin, the daughter of Pemberley's head gardener. "Jenny! It's me, Julianne, what happened to you? Tell me you're not seriously hurt!" In her panic, she hardly realized the futility of questioning a terrified screaming eight year old girl.  "I was playing, then I suddenly saw the tree swaying then--!" the girl then starting to weep hysterically again.  Julianne tried to pry off the tree but it was too heavy for her. "Jenny, listen to me." She said quickly. "I'm going to run for help, don't panic, I'll come back, and we'll take this tree off from you, do you understand?" Jenny murmured an intelligible response and Julianne ran off towards Pemberley.  On her way there she saw an approaching carriage with the Darcy crest on its side. Must be Robert Darcy.she thought. Let's hope that he has a Christian spirit. She ran to the side of the road and begged the driver to stop the carriage. The driver stopped abruptly and the carriage door opened. A young man came out to see what the commotion was and stopped abruptly at the sight of the frightened disheveled girl in front of him. "Whatever is the matter?" he asked, totally bewildered.  Julianne spoke breathlessly. "Mr. Darcy, sir, you must help me! A little girl is trapped under a tree and I can't lift it up and I don't know what to do and she is so scared ..." she trailed off, gasping to catch her breath.  "Where is she? Take me to her!" he exclaimed sharply. He turned to the driver and told him to wait for him there. He then followed Julianne, who was running towards the woods. When they arrived near the scene, Jenny had passed out from the shock and pain and Robert quickly took the matter in his own hands. "Hold the girl from under her arms, and when I tell you, drag her out!" he ordered.  Julianne did as he told her, and with some effort, he managed to raise the trunk for a few inches, enough to squeeze the girl out. Julianne quickly dragged Jenny out, but not before feeling a sharp stab of pain in her hand as Robert let go the trunk because of its weight. He wrapped Jenny, who had recovered her senses and was moaning quietly, in his discarded coat and carried her in her arms. "Do you know where she lives?" he asked quietly.  "Yes in a cottage not far from here," she replied, trying to speak calmly. They took Jenny home and stayed there till one of her siblings went looking for the village doctor. They left soon after, not before being thanked profusely by the girl's mother. As they walked towards Robert's carriage, he said. "You happen to know my name, but I don't know yours. After dragging me into such an adventure, could you please satisfy my curiosity?"  "Of course, sir. I'm Julianne Philips, Mrs. Darcy's cousin."  "I'm pleased to make your acquaintance in such unforeseen and unusually circumstances, Miss Philips," he remarked cheerfully.  "Pleasure is all mine Mr. Darcy," she replied.  "Uh ... Miss Philips, is your hand hurting you by any chance?"  "No, why?"  "It's bleeding, Miss," he explained, pointing to a crimson cut on her hand.  "Ouch, OUCH, Ow!!" Julianne cried. She and Robert were in his carriage, and he was trying to get a splinter out of her hand.  "Miss Philips, how can I take this thing off if you keep moving and yelling in this way?" he exclaimed in exasperation.  "Well be careful can't you? OH! There you go again!"  "It wasn't hurting before!"  "Well now it is!"  "You are making more fuss than that girl, and she was trapped under a tree!" he cried.  "When you arrived, Jenny had passed out!" retorted Julianne.  "Well for goodness sake do me a favour and pass out Miss Philips," he said through clenched teeth as Julianne fidgeted again.  "And give you that satisfaction? No thanks!"  "It's not my satisfaction that is in line here but my sanity!"  Julianne couldn't help laughing. "Mr. Darcy said something to that effect just this morning," she remarked.  "Well, after all, he did marry your cousin didn't he?" he teased.  Julianne pulled a face at him. "I won't speak to you now, I'm terrible affronted," she said, pretending to be angry.  Robert heaved a sigh of relief. "Much obliged ma'am," he joked. He was surprised at how easily he found himself chatting to this stranger sitting beside him. He felt that he could be tease Julianne and be his normal self without his motives being misunderstood, as so often happened when he tried to joke with the ladies in the London society. Maybe Julianne wasn't as glamorous as the society belles, but her winning prettiness and easy ways were as fresh and natural as the country air she must so often breathe.  I like her smile  He pried out the splinter and bandaged her hand with a handkerchief. "There you go," he said. "Does it feel better now?"  "Yes, I thank you," she replied truthfully. She couldn't help looking at him closely. He possessed the dark complexion of the Darcy family but his dark hair was cut quite short, and this made him look quite different from his cousin. Also, his countenance showed that Robert Darcy was inclined to share his good humour with most of the people around him while Fitzwilliam Darcy did so only with his closest friends and relatives. His face was boyish, and his lips were almost constantly turned into a half smile. Julianne caught herself staring and averted her gaze to the window, letting out an inaudible sigh.  I like his smile.  They soon arrived at Pemberley and found another carriage standing near the entrance. Lady Catherine de Bourgh and her daughter had just arrived. Robert and Julianne alighted and hastened to go and meet the rest of the party. From the latter's astonished stares, they belatedly realized the awful state they must be in. Elizabeth gasped, Darcy gaped, and Lady Catherine looked at them scornfully. "This, Mrs. Darcy, must SURELY a relative of yours," she remarked disdainfully.  Elizabeth gave her a small nod. "That's my cousin, Miss Julianne Philips, Lady Catherine."  "Miss Philips, is that dirt I see on your shoes, your dress and your face?" she demanded. Julianne could think of no answer but she was spared when Lady Catherine continued her tirade. "I say that I was right as usual! Though I never suspected that the contamination of such an estate would be attempted even by the cousins! And Robert Darcy too, I must say, has fallen victim to it!" With that, Lady Catherine entered the house imperially, and Darcy followed, trying to keep from bursting out his annoyance towards his aunt.  Contamination? What is this hag talking about?thought Julianne and was about to laugh out loud when she suddenly saw Elizabeth walking towards her. Her cousin was blushing furiously, and tears of mortification swam in her eyes. "How could you do this to me Julianne Philips? You ruined everything!Are you satisfied now?" 
	◦	 Chapter 6 Julianne looked at Elizabeth, speechless. She felt an unfamiliar surge of fury towards her cousin and tried to swallow a lump that had suddenly risen to her throat. What was wrong with Elizabeth? Why was she behaving in this way? She glanced towards Robert, who was standing near here, and started to speak before he could formulate any retort. "Elizabeth," she began, trying to speak calmly. "This is not what it seems; this has been no prank of mine."  Elizabeth arched an eyebrow and looked at her in disbelief. At that, Julianne spun round and walked briskly to the staircase. "On the other hand," she called behind her. "I do not need to explain myself! And Mrs. Darcy, please do not wait for me for dinner!"  At that moment, Darcy returned at that moment and witnessed the entire last scene. He looked at his cousin, who seemed somewhat nettled by all that happened. "With all due respect Ma'am, but I think you should have listened to Miss Philips' explanation," Robert said, with an almost imperceptible hint of reproach.  Elizabeth looked down, suddenly ashamed of her behavior, especially in front of her husband's cousin. Darcy could stand it no longer and walked briskly towards his wife. He called the butler and asked him to take Robert to his room, and then looked towards Elizabeth. "You and I have to talk, Elizabeth, and we are going to do it now!" he said sternly. She followed discreetly behind him, till they arrived to their chambers. Darcy slammed the door behind him and turned towards her to face her.  "Elizabeth, I have withstood your tantrums, your panic and unreasonable requests for the last week without a word of opposition, but this is absolutely the last straw! What on earth has happened to you?" he demanded angrily. She stood silent. "For God's sake Elizabeth, it's been like living with your mother! And don't you even dare mention nerves because I swear I don't know what I'd do if my last thread of rationality snaps!"  Elizabeth swallowed painfully and looked down. "Has it really been so bad?"  "Well, Julianne is locked up in her room, Robert is probably wondering how much it would cost for him to reach his father in France and you even ask me that?"  His wife sank down on the bed and covered her face with her hands. "I'm sorry, I'm so sorry," she whispered sadly. "It's just that I had hoped so much that Lady Catherine's request to visit Pemberley had been an attempt for reconciliation that I wanted everything to go well!"  Darcy softened a bit and went to sit down near her. "But why? Why should you care so much for her good opinion? Surely you don't think my love for you so fickle as to be influenced by her?"  Elizabeth looked at him sadly. "You know that before we got engaged, she had told me that if you married me, you'd be the ridicule of all high society," she began, and Darcy nodded. "Well, at the time, I had dismissed this idea as ridiculous, but when we went to London last Spring, I realized that what she said might be true! I did hear some very nasty remarks concerning you and the fact that you married a rough, country girl, and I felt so awful at the time! I couldn't bear to think that you could be subjected to anything like this just because of me! Fitzwilliam, I love you too much to do this to you, please try to understand." She turned her gaze from him, trying not to let him see her tearful eyes.  Darcy was deeply touched by her words. He would have never imagined that all that Elizabeth had done had been for him. He looked at her lovingly and took both her hands in his. "Elizabeth, when I married you, I decided to put away the superficiality and hypocrisy of the London society behind me in favour of complete happiness with you. How you could you think that Lady Catherine's opinion, or even of her sycophantic followers would affect my love for you?" he asked quietly. "The few sensible people in society admire you and respect you for your independence and for your strength of character and mind in matters concerning my aunt. The Fitzwilliams love you dearly, and you know that I can never live happily without you. I share everything with you, and no one and nothing shall ever change that!"  Elizabeth buried herself in his arms and whispered "I'm sorry," again. "I promise you, my love, I shall never behave myself like this again, oh I'm so ashamed!"  Darcy smiled at her and wiped the tears gently from her face. "Can I have my wife back now?" he joked. "I do believe that her mother has prolonged her stay!"  Elizabeth kissed him deeply, and for the first time in the last weeks, they forgot about everyone and everybody except for the warmth and the love they wanted to completely bestow to each other. When they broke off gently, Elizabeth kissed him lightly on his neck and whispered, "There is another reason for me to have wanted a reconciliation."  Julianne paced her room angrily. Not even a warm bath had soothed her wounded pride, and the pain in her hand was nothing compared to the hurt she felt when she remembered Elizabeth's words. She finally slumped herself deeply into the couch that was in the sitting area, and sat there, feeling completely miserable. The Darcy's and the de Bourghs had probably had their dinner by that time, and she suddenly felt extremely hungry. However, nothing would ever induce her to go down and face Elizabeth, or even Mr. Darcy's cousin... He had seemed to amiable, so eager to please and be helpful, but after all, she taken certain liberties with him that now appeared to be wholly inappropriate and probably subject to ridicule in his conversations with his cousin. She couldn't bear to think of that.  Julianne suddenly heard a knock at the door. "Come in!" she growled, and was amazed to find Mr. Darcy and Elizabeth entering her room. Mr. Darcy was carrying a tray of food, which he set down on a table in front of her.  "From what I know of you, at this time you must be famished," he said with some levity.  Julianne looked at Elizabeth coldly before replying, "I thought you had servants for that, sir." Seeing Darcy's surprised and rather disappointed face, she hurriedly excused herself. "I'm sorry Mr. Darcy," she said. "I have no right to be angry with you." She turned pointedly to the window. "Though there is a little matter concerning Mrs. Darcy."  Darcy patted his wife's arm affectionately and gave her an encouraging look. "I should leave you two alone," he said, and left the room.  Elizabeth walked slowly towards Julianne, who was looking at her defiantly. "Julianne, I came her to apologize. Robert told us all about Jenny and her accident. I overreacted completely and I was absolutely wrong to judge you and treat you like I did. I'm sorry Ju, please try to forgive me," she said quietly.  Her cousin looked at her closely and let out a breath. "Elizabeth, who is Lady Catherine de Bourgh? Why does she affect you in such a negative way? I am completely at a loss!" she cried, honestly bewildered.  Elizabeth then told her about Lady Catherine's opposition to their wedding, the conversation she had had with her in the Longbourn park, and all that she had told Darcy.  "I understand a bit better now," confessed Julianne. "Oh Lizzie, I wish you had told me before! I could have helped you, instead of ruining everything for you!"  Elizabeth shook her head vigorously. "No! You didn't do anything wrong, I should have never forgotten my family ties in the attempt to impress a disagreeable conceited lady such as her. I realized that whatever I do, she will never accept me as her husband's wife, and that after all, it will be her loss."  Her cousin looked at her wistfully and sighed. "Sometimes you seem so wise compared to me Lizzie. You are only three years older, but I feel that such an enormous ocean is dividing us. I am careless, clumsy and often irrational. While you, seem to be always in control, so mature!"  "Except for these last days," chuckled Elizabeth. Then seeing Julianne's serious face, she stopped laughing. "Julianne, what you are saying has nothing to do with age. I was just like you some years ago, but in a year I found myself dealing with Jane's heartbreak, Lydia's infamous elopement, and almost from on day to the next I found myself Mistress of an enormous estate, and wife to a man that needs a woman competent enough to share his life. I had to learn pretty fast, but I'm still a long way off from being an ideal wife."  "He doesn't seem to think so, and frankly neither do I," replied Julianne.  "I'm sure that this will soon happen to you, so savour these carefree days. For all you know, you may soon find yourself in my condition!" said Elizabeth.  "You are happy, are you not?"  "Immensely," she replied immediately. Then looking rather wistful, she said, "And maybe there will be an addition to my happiness very soon."  Julianne gaped. "Addition? Are you --- ?"  "I don't know yet," replied Elizabeth, giving her a radiant. "But I might be. In fact it is almost certain. Only you and Fitzwilliam know, and I should like it to be that way for a while." She sobered down. "I've been disappointed before, but I think this time it's really true."  "You can be certain of my secrecy Lizzie. Oh I'm so happy for you!" She suddenly gasped. "So that was an other reason for wanting Lady Catherine to accept you?"  Elizabeth nodded. "I don't want my children ever to feel ashamed of their mother."  The two cousins hugged each other tightly, happy for their newly found intimacy. "I will leave you now," said Elizabeth. "I have to go entertain the other guests." She kissed Julianne lightly on the cheek and smiled slyly. "Please do come down to breakfast tomorrow, Mr. Darcy seems to have suffered from your absence!"  "Which Mr. Darcy?" asked Julianne before she could help herself.  "The tall, dark handsome one," was the reply.  "That applies to both!"  Elizabeth laughed, gave her a small wink, and went out. 
	◦	 Chapter 7 Julianne could hardly help grinning at herself as she recounted the events of the last days to her brother in her letter.   ...And so, dear brother, after the row I had with Elizabeth, things really started to look bleak for poor Lady Catherine and her daughter! The following day she started to abuse her and Darcy for "letting the common children of the tenants scuttle about the parks of Pemberley"; Darcy started to retort something back but Elizabeth stood there calmly and with a dignity that amazed us all, she told Lady Catherine that since she was Mistress of Pemberley she was in the power to ensure that her visit would be extremely pleasant, but also to make sure that it would be of the utmost brevity! "Lady Catherine," she continued, "I do hope that you will bear this in mind when you address me in the future!" Jeremy, you should have seen the old woman's face! Darcy and his cousin could hardly suppress their laughter, and I was not nearly so lucky in doing so. Elizabeth stood silently looking at us all, and sipping her tea quietly. Luckily, Darcy's aunt did leave after a couple of days and we were soon joined by Georgiana. Elizabeth's pregnancy has been confirmed by her doctor and we are all in excellent spirits. Our cousin and her husband seem to be continually treading on thin air and at times do not even seem to notice our presence! Thus Georgiana, Robert Darcy and I spend most of our time together, and weather permitting, go on long walks together or even to Lambton. I must admit that I like both of them exceedingly well. Mr. Darcy is wonderfully amiable, intelligent and remarkably pleasing. Georgiana is very much like her brother, shy and reserved but very sophisticated and well informed. I know that we both saw her at Lizzie's wedding, but I can assure you that that short glimpse could hardly do her justice. I must confess, Jeremy that sometimes I do feel a bit left out in their conversation. [She couldn't help sighing as she wrote this part] Since they're cousins, they have a lot of common acquaintances and experiences to discuss, and I sometimes I feel so ignorant concerning the ways of London and society. When you visit Pemberley for Christmas you must make absolutely sure that you tell me all about London and the people there, so that I don't disfigure so much in comparison to Georgiana.  I can hardly wait to see you again, brother. Please join me here soon, so that you will also be able to partake from the fun and joy that I am experiencing in this house!  Your sister,  Julianne   Dear sister,  I was so pleased to read you letter. You are not really behaving perfectly well I see, but I'm glad that any problems you had with Lizzie have been solved. I am also extremely happy to hear of the Darcys' impending parenthood; please wish them all my love, and tell them of my impatience to join you all.  My dear girl, did I discern a hint of jealousy in your description of the relationship between Georgiana and this Robert Darcy chap? Are you envious of their good breeding or of something else? Am I to presume that my dear sister is about to give her heart away? Julianne, I can't wait to make the acquaintance of the gentleman who has sent you into raptures with his "amiability" and "pleasing manners"! To be sure, I will inform you of all that is happening in town on my arrival to the estate, but in the meantime, why don't you entertain your friends with the tales of our life in Scotland?  On the other hand, your pranks might frighten the poor fellow away, you can never be too sure of a young rich man's heart!  Julianne, I will be leaving Oxford for Meryton in a couple of days, where I shall be joining Uncle and Aunt Gardiner and all our cousins. We shall journey together and arrive at Derbyshire most probably on the 20th of December. As you see, we shall soon meet again!  Your intrigued brother  Jeremy  The carriages did arrive on the 20th of December and Julianne could hardly contain her eagerness to meet her brother again. Jeremy was in a carriage with Mr. Gardiner, while Mrs. Gardiner and the children were in another one. As soon as he alighted, his sister squealed and jumped into his arms. The twins were delighted to be reunited again and hugged each other affectionately. "Where is the Darcy fellow?" Jeremy whispered in her ear.  Julianne giggled and looked at Robert. "There he is," she whispered back. "Though I can assure you that you are making a mountain out of a molehill!'  They grinned at each other in an identical way, but Julianne could not help noticing that Jeremy had changed somehow. He looked older, more genteel, and definitely good-looking. Julianne looked at him in admiration. Oxford was really making a gentleman out of her brother.  After going inside, the Gardiners and Jeremy all congratulated Elizabeth and Darcy and Jeremy was introduced to Robert and greeted Georgiana politely. They had only met once very briefly and she was a bit shy in her address. Jeremy and Robert took to each other immediately and "Mr. Philips" and "Mr. Darcy" were very soon replaced by their Christian names, and their polite greeting gave way to a friendly banter concerning the two opposing Universities they were loyal to, Oxford and Cambridge. The rest of the evening was thus passed in extremely good company.  The next day, Darcy and Elizabeth walked leisurely to the dining room for breakfast and were astonished to find that there was nobody there. Voices were coming from outside so they went to investigate. It had snowed heavily that night, but it had stopped in the morning, although the skies were gray and there was no chance of the sun coming out. The Darcys found Robert and Georgiana grinning awkwardly, while staring at the twins who were caught in a fierce, and noisy argument.  "OH Jeremy shut up! It won't topple I can assure you!"  "Julianne, can't you grow some common sense in the obstinate head of yours?"  "Do not call me obstinate! I won't have it from you!"  "Don't you get all high and mighty with me! I can call you whatever I like!"  "So that is what they are teaching you in that stupid university of yours! Why don't you go back there and do us all a favour?"  Elizabeth interrupted them before matters got too serious. She could see that brother and sister were absolutely furious at each other. "What is happening here? What are you two arguing about?"  The twins whirled around to face her and her husband, and looked at them guiltily, while Georgiana and Robert snickered. Jeremy cleared his throat, and tried to explain, after giving one last glare to his fuming sister. "We were... uh, talking about snowmen, Lizzie."  Elizabeth and Darcy burst out laughing. "Snowmen? And why should a snowman bring about such a fraternal dispute?" asked Darcy.  "Jeremy and I couldn't quite agree on the size of the snowman we were going to make. I want it to be enormous, while he opts for something smaller, for fear that it will topple over!" Julianne explained scornfully.  Darcy looked at them with a small, resigned smile. "Well, why don't you make two then?"  The twins looked at him in amazement, and then grinned at each other. "Mr. Darcy, you are a genius," said Julianne, staring at him in awe.  "That is what thinking is all about," he replied, unable to stop from teasing her.  Some time later, Pemberley had two snowmen to boast about. The Gardiners and the Darcys joined in the fun, creating a small stable figure and a large, rather tottering one, for Julianne's sake. After they accomplished their feat, they all went inside, while Robert and Julianne lingered outside to admire their work.  Robert attempted to straighten the hat of the larger one, and succeeded in nearly toppling its head. Julianne gave him an impatient look and muttered something that to his ears, greatly resembled "idiot". With some effort, they managed to put it back on again, and giving it a bit more steadiness.  Julianne gave a small happy smile as she looked at the figures again. "This reminds me so much of my childhood before leaving for Scotland," she said. She had already told Robert about her years with her Scottish relative. "I remember that Jeremy used to leave mince pies on a plate for the snowman. I can still see his happy face at finding them all gone!"  "Gone? Where did they go?"  "Why, I used to sneak and eat them of course," replied Julianne slyly.  Robert gave her a mock glare. "You cold, cruel girl!" he accused severely. "How could you abuse of your brother's naivete in this way?"  "I was only doing him a favour! Believe me, he really believed that the snowman ate his mince pies, and he would have been really disappointed in finding a full plate instead of an empty one," explained Julianne, trying to be truthful.  "I'm sure you used to do that out of your greatness of heart," he remarked arching an eyebrow. "You should dress like a man and enter politics. I'm sure your scheming mind would be greatly appreciated," he laughed.  Julianne pulled a face at him. "I was thinking of using my "scheming" mind in more advantageous circumstances, sir," she replied.  "Which are?"  "Why, marriage of course!" A twinkle in her eye showed Robert that she was just joking.  Robert gave her a rather long look, and his half smile gave Julianne's face unfamiliar warmth. "I see that you do not have a positive outlook towards matrimony, Miss Philips," he remarked.  "Well, I never had that, sir" she replied and then looked towards Pemberley. "Until I came here, that is. Seeing Elizabeth and your cousin, their happiness and the baby that has still yet to be born; it makes me feel that marriage is not so superficial and hypocritical as I once thought. Don't you agree?' Her voice trailed off and she looked at him seriously.  Robert stared at her for a second. "Yes, I -- agree perfectly. Their marriage is definitely not a business affair," he remarked wistfully. "To be honest, this is the view of the holy union I like to keep in mind when I decide to enter it myself." There was silence for a few minutes and he suddenly resumed his old cheerful self. "Well, ma'am, shall we go in? It is getting rather cold isn't it?" He held out his hand for her, and winked at her wickedly.  Julianne let out a small breath and the voice in her mind started to nag.  Julianne, my girl, you're totally smitten! No I'm not! Yes you are! Shut up!  This was crazy. She only knew Robert Darcy for a couple of weeks; he could not affect her in such a way! She gave an involuntary shiver.  "Miss Philips, I hope that you will not catch a cold," he remarked, truly concerned.  "My constitution is strong Mr. Darcy. I never catch such things as colds!"  Less than two hours later, Julianne was firmly tucked under her blankets, sniffing dolefully as she cursed all colds and snowmen.  ************  Continued in Part 2 

Family Affairs

By Daniela
Part 1|Part 2|Part 3|

Chapter 8
Elizabeth entered Julianne's room cheerfully, and found her cousin sitting up in bed, eating her breakfast with her usual appetite. "Good-morning my dear," she chirped.

Julianne scowled. "You should go away Lizzie," she replied. "All you see in this room is a moving bundle of sickness."

Elizabeth opened all the windows and inhaled the fresh air. "The room is being aired, and I am perfectly safe, although I depend on your generosity in not sneezing in my face," she continued.

Julianne rolled her eyes, Elizabeth had the really maddening habit of waking up in a regular good mood. "I'll do my best, Liz," she sighed impatiently. Then she couldn't help adding a jibe. "You amaze me, cousin. I've heard of women feeling nauseated and bad tempered during their pregnancy. Must you be the only exception?"

"Surely you don't want such calamities to befall on me dear?" retorted Elizabeth. "You must know by now that such misfortunes tend to affect all the people that surround me!"

"If you put it in that way, I guess no then! So, have you all finished breakfast?"

"Oh yes, Fitzwilliam and Uncle Edward are discussing some business, while Aunt Margaret and Georgiana are with the children. They are decorating the house with mistletoe."

Julianne sighed, she really hated being confined to her room. "And where is my brother?"

"Oh I think he's out --" Elizabeth was interrupted by a yell from outside.

"JUUUULIANNNNNNE!!!!"

Julianne laughed. "That must be Jeremy. Classy isn't he?"

Elizabeth grinned. "I guess there must be some underlying common factor between the Philipses and the Bennets, no?"

"God forbid! He will start sounding like Lydia in no time!" With that, she scrambled hurriedly out of bed and went to look outside. Jeremy and Robert were standing on the snow outside. The former was waving wildly, and laughing at her while the latter stood looking at her sympathetically, and also rather sheepishly. Julianne waved at them, grinning happily.

"How are you sister?" yelled Jeremy from below. "Is it as bad as you are making it out to be?"

"Let him try repeating that when we're in the same room!" said Julianne wryly to Elizabeth who was also standing near the window. "I can't yell out the insults I have in mind," she continued, rather ruefully.

Tired of his teasing, Jeremy gave her one last wave and turned to move away. Robert stood for a minute under the window, and gave her a small tentative wave. Julianne responded in kind, and they gave each other a look that was not lost on Elizabeth. She pulled the younger girl gently away from the window and gave a searching gaze. "Julianne, take care," she said.

Julianne immediately understood her meaning and looked away. "Do not concern yourself Elizabeth, I am in no danger."

"I am not contrary to you having a certain sympathy towards Robert, but do not let your heart and romantic notions run away with you. He may not be exactly what you want him to."

"What do you mean Lizzie? Please explain, and don't use half measures, you know how I despise that sort of thing."

Elizabeth looked at her closely. "Unfortunately for him, his reputation precedes him in every place he decides to go too," she began rather cryptically.

"Reputation? What on earth are you talking about?"

"You are well acquainted with his father's habits, Ju. Unfortunately it seems that his son also shares his love for beautiful women and is known as an inexorable flirt." Elizabeth paused. "I am only telling you this to be careful; I wouldn't want him to hurt you in any way."

Julianne gave her a thoroughly puzzled look. "A flirt? I never noticed that -- oh, that means that he never flirted with me. That is even worse." There was a pause. "A reputed flirt who doesn't try it out with me. Flattering, isn't it?" she remarked wryly.

"Julianne! Surely you don't really mean that!"

Her cousin stared again out of the window, and saw the retreating figures of the two young men. "Of course not, Elizabeth" she said with a sigh. "I don't want to be taken for a ride by anybody!"

That night Julianne couldn't sleep. She was used to very active days and being confined in her room made her restless and bored. Her cold was much better; she had always been very strong, and hardly ever ill. Not even a warm bath had managed to soothe her and lull her to sleep. After some hours of tossing and turning in her bed, she decided to go to the library and search for some book to amuse her. She ascertained that everyone was asleep and quietly made her way downstairs. The small light of her candle produced strange shadows in the corners of the house and she was very glad to find herself in the warmth and comfort of a well-lit library. Julianne had hardly time to be surprised at the fact that the fire was blazing before she heard an amazed whisper behind her. "Miss Philips!"

She whirled round and found herself looking at Robert, who was precariously perched on a ladder. "Mr. Darcy! You scared me!" she replied.

"What are you doing out of bed?"

"I couldn't sleep, so I came looking for a book."

"A book to entertain you through the night, or a tedious one to lull you to sleep?" he replied, with his usual smile.

"Do you volunteer to choose one for me?" she replied with equal joviality. "Then I put my trust in you. Make your own choice."

Robert turned his attention to the shelves and pretended to be searching industrially. "There must be a book of fairy tales somewhere," he joked.

"I don't think you'll find one here. The only copy must be under your pillow," she retorted.

He shook his head. "Spiteful, spiteful girl! I always though amiable, you disappoint me," he replied, giving her a teasing wink.

The last part seemed to be lost on Julianne, who suddenly looked at him very seriously. "Do you see me as a little girl, Mr. Darcy?" she asked suddenly.

What? Is she serious? To Robert, as he looked at her cascading locks of hair, tied loosely by a ribbon, and the thin nightgown that clung to her soft curves provocatively, she looking anything but a little girl. He tore his gaze from her and noticed that she was still talking.

"I know that I don't have the beauty of Elizabeth, or Georgiana's natural sophistication and talent, but--- " her voice trailed off and she shrugged her shoulders to try to prove her point.

Robert went down the ladder and looked at her closely. "Believe me, Miss Philips, you don't have to worry. I can assure you, that I find you amiable, pretty, accomplished and all the things you seem to think you lack. I love being in your company, and -- " Here he lowered his voice and trailed his finger on her cheek. "I hope to be more acquainted with your virtues in the near future."

Julianne gave a small gasp at this contact and couldn't help lowering her gaze away from his close scrutiny.

Say something girl. You are standing in front of the most amazing man in your acquaintance. Think of something, quick!

AAACHOOOO!!

A sneeze. Charming. Not exactly what I had in mind though.

The embarrassment Julianne felt at that moment can't quite be described. How could she have sneezed in the magical, perfect moment?! She was on the verge of tears, and blushed furiously. She couldn't face Robert and was wondering at the best way to run away when she suddenly saw a handkerchief offered in front of her. She looked up and saw him looking at her with an amused expression. "Bless you," he said softly.

Julianne took the handkerchief and blew her nose discreetly. "I already have one of these," she remarked, referring to their first meeting.

"Do not worry, I have plenty," he replied, laughing softly. He placed his hands on her arms, as he had sensed her urge to leave the room. "You really should be in bed, Julianne," he said. "Though I'd love you to stay here and keep me company."

It was the first time he had called her by name, and Julianne loved the sound of it. "I don't want to leave you, Robert," she said in such a low voice that he could hardly hear her. She closed her eyes and that was all the invitation he needed to place a soft kiss on her lips. The kiss tentative at first, was soon deepened by their eagerness and Julianne wrapped her arms tightly around his neck.

Oh my God, he's kissing me.

All right, you've had enough, now stop.

Stop? Are you crazy? I wanted to be kissed by him five minutes after I first met him!

You're playing with fire!

Shut up!

Robert suddenly broke the kiss and let out a small breath. "That was good," he whispered in his ear.

Julianne shivered and painfully detached herself from him. She couldn't trust herself and her actions if she stayed longer near him. "I think I should go now, Robert," she told him.

"Yes, me too," he replied, passing a hand through his hair awkwardly.

"Good night."

"Good night Julianne."

That night, neither party slept comfortably. Julianne was ecstatic with sheer joy and happiness. Robert stood for a long time gazing at the fire, wondering how he should act towards her from now on.

The following morning, Jeremy noticed the glow on his sister's face as she entered the dining room. She was grinning from ear to ear and hardly acknowledged his morning greeting. He gave her a kick under the table. "What happened to you?" he mouthed.

Before she could answer, Robert entered. He looked tired and pale and there were dark circles under his eyes. "Are you all right Robert?" asked Darcy. "You look terrible!"

Robert gave him a look and sneezed twice. "I'm not feeling well, cousin." He paused for a moment and blew his nose. "Somehow I must have caught Miss Philips' cold." He sat down, and gave Julianne an almost imperceptible wink.


Chapter 9
Julianne made a face at her reflected image in the mirror. She had been staring at it absentmindedly for quite a few hours, and it was well into the night. She had needed some time to think about the events of the last couple of days, and the behaviour of Robert Darcy towards herself. To say that he had been acting strangely, was at the very least, an understatement. After they had kissed in the library, Julianne's mind had flown towards engagements and weddings, and she had hoped that Robert had been on her same wavelength. It was Christmas Eve and the Darcys had opted to spend the Christmas festivities quietly with their immediate family, while preparing for a grand ball at Pemberley for New Year. His behaviour that day had alternated between cold and distant to pleasant and attentive. At times he would just stand near the window and brood, at others he would yearn to sit beside her, and be as gentle as possible. All the adults at Pemberley had noticed a change in him, and although they suspected, none of them knew for certain what happened between him and Julianne.

"Is what Elizabeth told me true?" she asked her reflection sadly. "Didn't he care at all that night? Was it just a lark? God knows, how happy I was ..." She soon felt a lump coming to her throat, and swallowed it angrily. She was not going to cry over Robert Darcy, at least not until she found out what had happened to him, and what the kiss has signified. But whom could she ask?

Elizabeth and Darcy? NO way. The Bingleys had repeated the story of her hosts' formal dislike towards each other ad infinitum, or to be more exact, ad nauseam! There were no kisses shared before the engagement for them, for sure. And she certainly didn't want to suffer from similar misunderstandings. What about ...?

"Jeremy! Jer! Are you awake?" she whispered, as she shook her snoring brother.

"No," he grunted. "Go away."

"Jeremy, it's important, I swear," she pleaded.

"What time is it?"

"Three. Listen I was thinking--"

Jeremy groaned and hid his face under the pillow. "No one thinks at this time of the night! Think again in the morning and come to me, I'll be willing to listen."

"Jeremy it can't wait. Please. Please!"

Her brother sat up painfully and shook his tousled head. "This has better be important," he warned.

Julianne nodded eagerly and jumped beside him in the bed. Very soon a scuffle ensued between them for the possession of the blankets and the dominion of the bed.

"Move over Jeremy!"

"You have enough space!"

"But I'm cold, and your side is warmer!"

"I wonder why! Be careful, Ju, your genius is scary." Julianne tugged again at the blanket and Jeremy could stand it no longer. "Listen, if you give another tug to that blasted blanket I swear you'll be roasting over the fire!"

Julianne looked meekly at her brother. She was not accustomed to these outbursts. "You are usually more docile than this, what on earth is happening to you?" she remarked. Jeremy rolled his eyes and cursed under his breath, while remarking something about "darned cheek.". His sister's eyes were suddenly on the bedside table and she burst out laughing. "Spectacles? Oh brother, when did this happen?"

Jeremy faced her squarely. "You have three seconds to start talking about your alleged problem. If you don't, rest assured that you will not make it through the night," he warned menacingly.

Julianne's countenance subdued immediately when she was reminded of the reason of her nightly visit to her brother's room. "Jeremy, tell me something. Why do boys kiss girls?"

Jeremy looked at her in utter disbelief. "You woke me up in the middle of the night to ask me that?!"

"No! You don't understand," his sister explained hastily. "You see, two nights ago, I -- well, me and Robert --- you know... kissed."

Her brother's eyes narrowed down to slits as the missing pieces of the puzzle were suddenly put into place. "Ahhhh, so that is how the fellow got his cold! Oh my God, the poor chap must be, for some obscure reason, attracted to you!" He shook his head. "Robert has got all my pity!"

"Do not tease me Jeremy, can't you see I'm wretched?" Julianne replied sadly.

"Why should you be?"

"Well you know the story of him being a flirt and that he toys with the feelings of women," she began.

"Robert? A flirt? Who gave you such an idea?" he replied, amazed.

"It was Elizabeth," she explained, looking equally surprised.

Jeremy frowned at his sister. "You should know a false rumour when you hear it, Ju. You are usually the one to start them!" He let out a breath and continued. "Robert told me all about this idea that people seem to have of him. What they say about his father is true, albeit a bit exaggerated. But Robert--why! All through his adult life he has been suffering from this misconception of his character. When he just speaks to a girl, he is either chased off by a protective father, or else has her thrown at his feet by an over zealous mother who wants her to save him from eternal damnation!"

"What? So it's not true? Are you sure?"

"Absolutely! He was telling me just a few day's ago how happy he was to be here, because he is able to be himself and not be judged and misinterpreted all the time. I always suspected that he did care a bit for you, and the kiss actually confirms it. In fact, I think you might be his first."

"First what? Girl he kissed?" she asked eagerly.

"Good Lord, he's almost twenty-three years old! Isn't that improbable? I was talking more about you being the first girl he really cared for, you know, he's first love," he said. He gave her a pained look. "Touching, isn't it?" Julianne beamed at him and Jeremy rolled his eyes impatiently.

"But how can you explain his behaviour since he kissed me? He's silent and withdrawn one minute, and then completely at ease the moment after!"

"Well, he may be shy, embarrassed, how should I know?" he asked impatiently. Sleep had started to take its toll on him again. "Go and ask him for God's sake!"

Julianne gave her brother an affectionate squeeze. "You know what? That is what I will do!" she cried in determination.

"Yes, why don't you go now?" Jeremy replied, trying to shoo her off the bed.

Julianne looked at him completely unperturbed. "Jeremy, you have made your sister happy," she told him.

"I know that," he yawned. "She should try to reciprocate that some time."

"I owe you a lot," she said happily.

"Yes you do. Just go for now, then we'll settle it later. Good night Julianne."

"If you ever need to talk about a girl or anything, don't hesitate, all right?"

"I'll keep that in mind. Good night Julianne."

"Oh! And I won't tell anyone about you wearing spectacles!" Julianne gave a small squeal as she ran off to avoid the pillow her brother hurled at her.

Jeremy looked at the closed door as he picked up the pillow, and smiled a little sadly. You can't help me this time Ju. I think that what I want is way beyond my reach!*

*You seem to have read my mind Melanie! But let's take things bit by bit...my brain can't handle more than one couple at a time!


Chapter 10
As she closed the door of her brother's room, Julianne went over all the conversation, trying to think rationally over what Jeremy had told her about Robert. Did he really care for her? Has everyone been so deceived by his appearance?

Go ask him for God's sake!

You know, Jeremy, that is what I am going to do!

But was she? Did she have the courage to face Robert and demand from him an admission of his feelings towards her? Her initial resolve seemed to falter a bit, until she pulled herself together and walked briskly to his room.

What will people think of you? Scurrying from one bedroom to the next!

If I don't do it now I'll never will.

What about tomorrow after breakfast?

NO! Robert Darcy, be ready, Julianne Philips is on her way!

Julianne knocked quietly on the door but received no answer. He was asleep, no doubt. She felt her determination weaken even farther, and before she could entertain the thought of leaving Robert sleep and walking away to her room, she opened the door and barged in. She looked around timidly, expecting to find Robert's sleeping form, but to her surprise, the bed, albeit used, was empty. She was immediately struck by the warmth that surrounded her. It, together with the lingering scent of cologne and the general disorder of the room reminded her of Robert. It evoked in her the tender feelings she felt for him in the rare, close moments they had shared.

The door suddenly opened and Robert entered, clad in his nightclothes and dressing gown and carrying a glass of milk and a plate of biscuits. He stopped abruptly when he saw Julianne standing awkwardly in his room, and gaped at her in amazement. They stared at each other for a long moment, Julianne blushing in embarrassment, and Robert trying to seem nonchalant as he tried to hide his own discomfiture. When he saw her on the verge of tears, he gave her a big smile and attempted a bit of levity. "Julianne, don't you ever sleep at night?"

Julianne swallowed a sob painfully. "You don't seem to be in blissful repose either," she answered in a broken voice.

He looked at the plate and glass he was holding and grinned. "I do get hungry at this time of night," he said sheepishly. "The cook got used to me sneaking in his kitchen looking for his newly baked biscuits." Robert paused and breathed a small sigh of relief when he saw Julianne returning his grin with a small smile of her own and set the plate down on the table in front of the divan. He handed her a blanket from his bed and told her to sit down with him in front of the fire. They sat down for a while in silence, eating the biscuits and sharing the warm milk, but Robert was still totally puzzled about the presence of Julianne in his room, and could not hide the confusion for long. He noticed that at regular intervals, she would try to formulate a word, but would then clamp her mouth shut, as if her courage failed her.

Robert didn't know that he was really near the truth. Julianne wanted nothing but to run away from his room, from his earnest gaze, and even from Pemberley. But why, why do I get in all these scrapes? She couldn't give herself a satisfactory answer and finally gathered all the amount of strength in her to address the young man sitting beside her. "Listen Robert, I'm sorry that I came to your room at this time of night but I have to talk to you about something that is so serious that it couldn't wait and I don't know how to tell you and -- "

Robert put his arm around her. "You're rattling," he said matter-of-factly. "Now, calm yourself down will you?"

Julianne felt his arm on her shoulder and gently shook it away. "Not again Robert, please not again." He immediately understood, and looked at the fire, nervously chewing his bottom lip. "The same thing always happens when we are alone, and yet nothing comes out of it," she continued earnestly. He didn't answer again, and that angered her. "I swear Robert, I'm not going to let you hurt me," she warned. "I was led to believe that I meant something to you, but if that is not so, tell me now so that we'll prevent any further misunderstanding."

Robert turned to face her in astonishment. "You actually think that our kiss meant nothing to me?" She didn't answer but looked steadfastly at him. "Julianne, that's not true, that episode in the library was the happiest moment in my life. I care a lot for you, and I do not want you to think otherwise."

"Then why were you so withdrawn and cold the following days? You can't blame me for doubting your affections can you?"

He took her hand in both his and held it gently as he continued. "I know. I am to blame. But I didn't know how to behave, how to act with you; I never felt the same way for a girl before! Believe me, I never wanted to hurt you."

Julianne put her head on his shoulder. "How will you act now with me?" she said softly. "Am I to expect a proposal soon?" she continued, only half-jokingly.

Robert looked startled at the mention of marriage. "Proposal? I'm not really sure about that," he said, rather agitated.

"What?" Julianne gave him one word, and one look that expressed it all, causing him to realize all too late the faux pas he had made.

"Oh God! I didn't mean that I don't want to marry you, but we've known each other for a few weeks, don't you want to wait a bit?"

Julianne couldn't help feeling that he was right, but was determined not to let it pass lightly. "So what do we do? We pretend that nothing has happened? That we are just friendly acquaintances?"

"No, listen to me," he said as he took hold of her other hand. "You know I don't mean that. I'm sincerely attached to you, and I'm sure we will get married eventually if we still feel for each other what we do now but look at us, we're so young, what do we know about love? I don't want to marry now, and find out that all we had was an infatuation of some short duration!" Julianne didn't answer, but she didn't snatch her hand away either. Robert interpreted that to his favour and bravely continued to venture the unexplored path of female endurance. "We both come from families that are not what one may call stable and happy. I've never had a long term mother figure in my life, and you have spent most of it away from home with a distant aunt. You yourself told me that your parents are indifferent to each other, do you want our marriage to be like that?" She shook her head slowly. "I would never want you to marry me, then to regret it later. I want our life to be perfect and happy together."

Julianne linked her fingers with his and gave him a tender look. "Problems will always arise Robert," she said in a small voice. "But one has to try one's best to solve them. You can't expect your married life to be always as blissful as you want it to be, but I must say that I agree with you. But what do you propose?"

"I think that we should not announce out engagement to our families and friends, at least until we are sure that we do want to get married after all," he answered seriously. Julianne nodded, and buried herself in his warm, comfortable embrace. They shared a bashful kiss and she decided to return to her room. Before she left he caught her again in her arms and whispered "Merry Christmas."

"I had forgotten all about that," she said ruefully. She still didn't know whether to be happy or wretched. "Robert, I have to tell Georgiana and Elizabeth about this, I'm sorry, but I can't keep it hidden from them."

"If it makes you feel better, by all means."

"So now you know all," she concluded the following day. Elizabeth and Georgiana were walking with her towards Pemberley after the Christmas service. The men were walking behind them, and Mrs Gardiner was showing her happy children all the landmarks that had remained unchanged from her childhood days in Lambton. Seeing them all three together, Robert sensed that the secret engagement was the topic of their conversation, but tried hard to ignore them and to take an active part in the discourse of his companions.

Elizabeth and Georgiana stared at her before their faces broke in a large smile. "That's wonderful," exclaimed her cousin in a low voice.

"Do you think I'm doing the right thing, Lizzie?"

"Of course you are," she replied seriously. "I think Robert is right, Ju. There are many emotions that are often mistaken for love. I want you to be happy with the partner of your choice, and embrace matrimony only when you are sure of your feelings."

Georgiana entered the conversation suddenly, and spoke to her while she stared ahead, as if trying to evoke some distant recollections. "Julianne, some years ago, I fancied myself in love, and I was going to marry a man who had tricked me with his handsome looks and gallant ways. I was ready to disgrace my name and that of my family for him, until my brother made me realize what a mistake I was going to make. He was just a fortune hunter that wanted to revenge himself on Fitzwilliam." She sighed and went on. "At the time, my heart was broken, but now I realize how dreadfully unhappy I would have been if I had just married him there and then, without reasoning out my feelings for him. I'm not saying that Robert is like that, but just that you have to be careful."

Elizabeth squeezed her hand and looked at her affectionately. She knew the enormous effort it must have cost her to confess her past dealings with George Wickham. "You must realize that love is not only romantic words and kisses. Sometimes you must pass through various misunderstandings and turbulences to realize whether what you feel is the real thing or not," she said, addressing her cousin.

Julianne looked away. Ever since, she got "engaged" to Robert, she had had this nagging feeling in her heart that something terrible was going to happen, that maybe the "turbulences" weren't so far away ... "Why must love be so complicated?" she cried. "Georgiana, I can't help envying you, your heart is not touched by anyone."

It was now Georgiana's turn to look away. Don't be so sure about that Julianne, but mine is a hopeless case. How could he ever love me back?


Chapter 11
"Good Heavens! You do look the part of a lady!" cried Jeremy appreciatively as he contemplated his sister's appearance. She was looking at herself critically in the mirror, wearing a beautiful, silk gown that Elizabeth had lent her. The whole household was preparing for the Pemberley ball that was being organized to celebrate the New Year and the twins had been caught in all the contagious flurry of activity that was found in the house. Jeremy had finished dressing some minutes before, and was now in his sister's room, passing comments on her attire. Frances, the maid, was at first put out by the appearance of a young gentleman passing rather vicious comments about his sister's hairstyle and apparel, but she soon realized that the he was just teasing her, and was now looking at Julianne with undisguised admiration. "I can hardly believe it. Julianne, you are actually a pretty girl!"

His sister smiled at him wryly. "Oh thanks, that is so good to know!"

He moved near her and whispered in her ear. "He will drop dead on seeing you."

Julianne bit her bottom lip guiltily. "Well, we'll see about that," she said, trying to sound nonchalant. She really hated keeping things hidden from her brother but she had promised Robert not to tell anyone, other than Elizabeth and Georgiana, about their so-called engagement. This past week had been rather trying for her; she had had to act a part that was difficult to keep up. She and Robert had kept their distance, and acted aloof, or at the most, as friends and what was hardest for her to endure was the fact that she seemed to be the only uncomfortable actor of the two. Her "fiance" had been his usual cheerful, careless self and Julianne seriously wondered at times whether she had just dreamt all that had happened in his room. Only when they were alone, when she would savour his warm kisses, would she feel a bit better.

Any other awkwardness was spared by the arrival of Georgiana, looking stunning in her own simple, but very elegant ball gown. "Georgiana! You look lovely," cried Julianne. "Doesn't she Jeremy?"

Jeremy immediately averted his gaze. "Yes, you look nice," he mumbled.

You moron, you don't even have the courage to look at her!

"Thank you Mr. Philips." She saw his averted look and, as usually happens, interpreted the action wrongly.

He didn't even look at me. Jeremy, must you be so indifferent?

Julianne linked her arms with both of them and they went down the stairs to the ballroom. Robert was waiting for them at the foot of the stairs, and Jeremy immediately left him his place at his sister's arm. "You look wonderful," he whispered softly. Julianne smiled at him happily and squeezed his arm. Robert smiled back, and returned to his usual indifference when they passed the threshold to the ballroom. She shook her head and released herself from his hold. Will she ever be able to understand what was going on in the mind of the young man she professed to be in love with?

At the same time, Jeremy was walking alongside Georgiana. Finally he mustered enough to address her. "Miss Darcy, would you be so kind--" he faltered then went on with greater determination. "Would you do me the honour of dancing the first dance with me?

Georgiana tried to swallow down the rush of excitement she felt in her heart and composed an expression of calm demeanour. "I'll be glad to Mr. Philips," she replied.

Julianne scanned the ballroom, trying to find a familiar face. Elizabeth and Darcy were welcoming their guests near the entrance. Oh, there were Uncle Edward and Aunt Margaret, and weren't those the Bingleys? She hurried over to greet Jane and her husband, when she suddenly caught sight of Kitty near them. She looked very pretty, classy, thought Julianne with surprise. And wasn't that Mr. Bingley's sister, what is her name -- Caroline something? Yes, there she was, hovering over Robert like a bird at prey.

For shame, he must be about ten years younger than her.

Thank God he seems just as disgusted as I am.

Julianne tried to shake any negative thoughts from her head as the time passed. She was introduced to many of the most powerful people of the kingdom and she did all that was in her power not to mortify her cousin, and especially her husband, and with her simple, pleasing manners she managed to gain the favour of the most accessible.

The dances started and Robert was immediately by her side, choosing now to act as a faithful betrothed. They danced in silence, both feeling, for the first time, uncomfortable in each other's presence. There seemed to be a wall between, a wall that just would not go down. Before the end of the dance dance, Julianne couldn't help bringing up the awkward subject. "Robert, why do you choose to ignore me when we are in public?"

"Julianne, I thought we had both agreed upon this. No one must know we are engaged!"

"But I seem the only one affected by it," she replied sharply.

Robert glared at her. "Don't ruin this dance for us Ju. It may probably the only one we will dance together tonight."

Julianne looked at him incredulously. Did he actually say that? How could he be so insensitive?

At that moment they were interrupted by a voice behind them. "Darcy! Rob Darcy is that you?"

Robert turned around. "Harper! Jack Harper!" he cried and slapped the young man on his back. They shook hands eagerly and Robert introduced Jack as an old University friend.

Jack bowed ceremoniously, he was handsome, but in an artificial, put-on way, and Julianne didn't really like the look of him. There seemed to be a sly, sinister look in his eyes, as if he were not a man to be trusted. "Enchanted," he said graciously and kissed her hand. "Darcy, you have found yourself a beautiful girl here!" he added, addressing his friend.

Robert laughed nervously. "Oh Miss Philips is not my girl," he said. "What gave you such an idea?"

Julianne paled and excused herself quickly. She was not going to stand such humiliation as this! She made her way quickly out of the ballroom and leant on the wall, trying to inhale some air, and calm down her ire. She heard some footsteps and Robert came after her. "What was the meaning of that? What the hell got into you?" he demanded angrily.

She faced him squarely. "I can't take this anymore. I don't want any secrets," she said in clipped tones.

"You know I'm doing this for us. You don't have to make such a fuss about it!" he replied rather cruelly.

Julianne fought her urge to slap him straight in the face, but she was still seething with fury. "I don't think that is your only reason," she accused.

"Don't be absurd."

"I'm not absurd, in fact I think I found you out. Are you ashamed of me and my family? Is that why you are keeping our engagement hidden from everyone?" she demanded.

Robert gave her a cold stare. "You're just being silly. I don't want to talk about this now. You're ruining our cousins' ball with your silly accusations."

Julianne ran off, completely devastated. She had never seen this side of Robert. What was the matter with them? Why were they fighting in such a terrible manner? She spend most of the ball sitting down near Elizabeth and her sisters, trying to join in their conversation as much as possible without them noticing the fact that she was completely miserable. She would have joined her brother and told him all about her troubles but he was dancing with Georgiana.

Again? That's strange....

At the stroke of midnight, all the guests welcomed the New Year with champagne and friendly embraces and kisses. While the married couples kissed, the single people simpered, flirted and smiled. Julianne, being neither one nor the other, was sitting down, when she felt a tap on her shoulder, and a very seemingly penitent Robert was standing beside her, holding a single rose in his hand. "Don't be mad at me," he said in a gentle voice.

Julianne gave him a tight smile, but she accepted the rose anyway. "Robert, you and I have to talk," she said slowly. "I can't believe we behaved in such an abominable way today."

"I know, you're right," he agreed. "But can we do it tomorrow? Jack Harper invited me and some other lads to go down to the village. You know to celebrate the New Year there. A Cambridge reunion of sorts."

"What? Do you know what time it is? What is there at the village at this time of night?" she asked, her good humour vanishing immediately.

"The pub will be open all night tonight," he explained. Then seeing her look of displeasure, he added, "Oh come on! I hardly ever go to the pub, and this is New Year after all!"

"So that's the reason for the rose, right? To cajole permission?"

"I don't need your permission," he replied sharply. "We are not married."

He did not say "yet" and they both noticed it. Were there any second thoughts hovering about? Julianne looked down. "Go then, and have fun." With that, they went on their separate ways, she straight to her room, and he following his old friends to the village. They were both so caught up in their argument that they failed to notice that Darcy had unintentionally eavesdropped on their conversation, and was staring at them leaving, flabbergasted -- to say the very least.

"Elizabeth? When were you planning to tell me about Julianne and Robert?" he asked casually as they were both settling down under the covers.

Elizabeth sat up to face him. "How do you know?"

"I heard."

Elizabeth explained the story about the secret engagement and the reasons for it being so. "I'm sorry I didn't tell you. I was bound to secrecy by my cousin," she explained. "Are you angry at me?"

Darcy shook his head perplexed. "No it's not that. But it is annoying to be master of a house and not knowing what is going on. And it is strange to think of Robert as engaged."

Elizabeth snuggled in his arms. "Do not worry about Robert. Those stories circulating about him aren't true."

"It's not that that worries me dear," he replied. "But don't you think it strange that they hardly seemed to talk to each other, and that he just left off to have fun with his friends, leaving his fiancee at home?"

However his wife's thoughts were not really on the subject. "You're right dear, but they are not children anymore. Must we spend all night talking about them?" she said as she put her arms around his neck and raised her mouth for a kiss.

Darcy kissed her hard. "I think not Madam," he said rather hoarsely.

As soon as her maid left her alone, Julianne burst into bitter tears. What was happening to them? Had Robert been right when he said that what they had might have been just a physical attraction? How could he have left her alone? Was it all over? He had treated her infamously this night, cruelly, so why was she so miserable knowing that he was getting drunk at the pub?

Is Robert feeling the same way too?

"To a world without women!" slurred Robert loudly, as he raised his glass to the air. All the men in the pub shouted likewise, and another round was called, all paid by the friendly cousin of the grand Master of Pemberley.

"Poor Rob!" cried Jack, who was the most sober of them all. "You're heartbroken aren't you?"

"NO," he replied, as he downed another drink. "I'm angry! I don't need women. They are all a nuisance!" He was totally drunk.

"I think I know just the person who will make you change your mind, Rob" his friend said slyly. "Molly! Come over here!" he cried, addressing the young woman who was standing behind the bar.

"Does anyone need company tonight?" she purred, as she stalked slowly towards their table. She sat on Robert's lap, and slowly took a sip from his drink.

Darcy couldn't sleep. He could hear the steady breathing of his wife, as she lay peacefully in his arms, but he couldn't help worrying at the delay of his cousin. The clock had chimed three o' clock ages ago and still Robert had not arrived. When the clock chimed four, he couldn't stand it any longer and gently detached himself from the embrace of his wife.

"What is the matter?" she asked sleepily.

"I'm going out to look for Robert," he explained as he dressed hurriedly.

"What?!"

"It is almost morning and he hasn't arrived. Elizabeth he is under my responsibility. I can't stay here doing nothing!" He quickly left the chamber and went down. As he walked briskly to the stables, he caught sight of his a horse and a rider approaching. It was Robert.

He dismounted slowly and walked unsteadily towards his cousin. He looked terrible, with his hair and clothes all unkempt and disheveled. He stumbled, but Darcy caught him midway. "Oh my God, Robert," he said in disgust. "You stink of alcohol!"

Robert looked at him, his eyes dazed and unfocused. "Julianne I'm sorry," he said in a broken voice. "I didn't want to...God knows I didn't want to..."

Darcy entered the bedroom some time later and sighed loudly. Elizabeth was waiting for him anxiously and questioned him with her eyes. He sighed loudly and kicked off his boots, the events of the night making him forget his usually tidy habits. "Could you ever have imagined that such bedlam would arise in this house with the simple presence of our cousins?" he demanded wearily.

"Why? What happened? I saw from the window that you met Robert near the stables, and I realized that he was in a very bad state," remarked his wife.

"Believe me, I do not know," he replied. "He spent the whole time I dragged him to his room mumbling apologies to Julianne. Then I just left him to the care of his valet."

"Mumbling apologies to Julianne? Whatever for?"

"From the vehemence of his apologies, my love, I think that that is something she would definitely not like to find out."

Late the next morning, Robert was, with a lot of difficulty, trying to make himself look a bit presentable to meet the other guests. He felt dreadful, looked even worse, and sorely threatened to make his overly patient manservant go crazy with his bad humour.

Julianne had heard about Robert's condition from Darcy during breakfast, and although she was still very hurt from what had passed between them the previous evening, was also very concerned about him. After all, she still cared a real lot for him, and her greatest wish was to try and reconcile their differences. She passed in front of his room discreetly and was surprised to find the door slightly ajar. She pushed it open slowly, and caught sight of Robert, as he was struggling to tie his cravat. "Paul, that was fast!" he cried as he turned around with some difficulty. "How did you manage to get it so --" He stopped abruptly and looked down as he saw Julianne in front of him.

"Good morning Robert," she began slowly.

He looked a little strained and could hardly look into her eyes as he acknowledged her greeting. "Good morning. I guess you've heard, haven't you?"

Julianne nodded and gave him a small smile. "How are you feeling now?"

Robert gave his head a small shake and groaned. "As if the war against the French is being fought inside my head," he said. "And I also have a stiff neck," he added and winced as a spasm of pain hit him.

His valet pushed the door with a little more vehemence that would be considered appropriate for a man of his station and entered quickly, carrying a mug full of some foul looking concoction. "Mrs Reynolds assured me that this brew is very useful in battling an unsettled stomach, Sir," he said woodenly. He stonily acknowledged Julianne's presence with a small bow.

"Unsettled stomach? That is an understatement if there ever was one," he remarked and drank the mixture with one breath, turning a pale shade of green as he finished it. "You can go now Paul," he whispered, and plunged deeply into a chair.

The valet left, and a sound that resembled suspiciously a snort was heard in the corridor. Robert looked a little miffed but Julianne could not resist a jibe. "You must admit Mr. Darcy, you deserve all this! Lately you have been behaving in a reprehensible manner to all who have the misfortune of knowing you!"

Robert gave her a crooked grin, and refrained from answering, finding solace in trying to move his neck. Julianne could not help pitying him, and was also glad that he was more approachable than the previous evening. She walked slowly behind the chair he was sitting on and placed her hands on his neck. "Where is it hurting you?" she asked.

"Here," he replied pointing at the particular spot with his finger. "A bit lower, almost ...ouch! Yes that's it." For some minutes, only his groans could be heard as Julianne kneaded his stiff muscles with practiced ease.

"There!" she said after some time. "Does it feel better now?"

Robert gave his neck a vigorous shake and grinned. "You performed a miracle here!" he exclaimed. He got up to hug her but she moved determinedly away. "What?" he asked.

"A hug and a cuddle can't erase what happened yesterday," she replied sharply.

"Yesterday?" he echoed, horrified.

"Yes. I'm still very hurt with some things you told me."

"Oh those! I mean -- I'm sorry Julianne. You know I didn't mean them! We were just both in a bad mood that's all," he said holding each of her hand with one of his own.

"It wasn't just that Robert, and you know it," she replied, but she did not let go of his grasp. "It has been brewing for quite some time." Robert did not answer and Julianne continued. "I don't want something like that to happen again. It was awful."

He looked at her earnestly. "You're right. But look at us today, we're here alone...[he waggled their hands and grinned sardonically] holding hands ... and we still haven't said anything nasty to each other! That does mean something, you know," he said with some levity. Julianne gave him a begrudging smile and he gained more courage. "Listen, I don't want any more secrets. We shall tell everyone about our engagement! What do you say to that?"

"What? You're not saying that to humour me, are you?" she asked, still wary.

"Don't be silly. I want to marry you, I'm sure of it. Don't you believe me?" he prodded.

Julianne looked at him deeply. "I'm sorry. Of course I believe you. You have always been honest with me," she replied.

Robert bit his lip and engulfed her into a warm embrace. "It's all settled now, isn't it? All I have to do is ask your father's consent, and that," he added, "I plan to do as soon as possible!"

I'll tell her. She will forgive me.

Yes. And your father will take the vote of chastity!

"Julianne! How could you keep this hidden from me? I cannot believe it, you have always told me everything before!" cried Jeremy reproachfully. Julianne, now sitting forlornly on his packed trunks, had just revealed to him the entire story about her engagement, and the secret she had kept from him. He was to leave with the Gardiners and the Bingleys (who had spent the night there after the ball) in a few minutes to go back to university. It was in incidents like these that Julianne fervently wished that they resembled each other also in height. Jeremy's tall frame was towering over her, making her feel more vulnerable than ever.

"I'm sorry! Robert and I had agreed to keep the affair a secret, that's all," she offered meekly.

"And you go tell Elizabeth and Georgiana about it. That makes sense," he replied, his voice dripping with bitter sarcasm.

"I don't know how to explain it. I was ... I was afraid of you."

"What?" He was sincerely stunned.

"Yes, I was scared of you, who has known me all my life, who knows my character -- you wouldn't have agreed to it! I'm sure of that!"

"How can you be so sure?"

"Because, I, myself, was not sure about it! Listen, after I talked to Lizzie, I was tempted to tell you everything, believe me, but then, I realized that it was always the same thing. I would be the one to come to you, and you would tell me what to do!" She waved her hands helplessly in the air and tried to be a bit clearer. "I wanted to do this all by myself, and bear the consequences myself. You see, if I had to suffer from my choice, I'd know that for once, it would have been done consciously by me, and me alone."

Jeremy stood silent for a moment. "I understand. However, I don't want you to feel that I am imposing on you in any way. I only offer advice, and that only when you seek it."

"I know you do that," she replied fervently. "But what should I say? You never tell me anything about yourself. Doesn't anything interesting happen in your life?"

Jeremy realized that his sister had artfully led the conversation to a different, rather awkward angle, but he was not one to resist a challenge. "I assure you that things do happen in my life, but whether they are interesting or not, is only a matter of subjective opinion."

Julianne rolled her eyes impatiently. "Speak English will you? Or better still, tell me a dark, dreadful secret of yours!"

Before her brother could reply, they were interrupted by the sudden entrance of Georgiana and Robert. The latter looked infinitely better and actually seemed very cheerful. "The carriage is here!" he announced. "It's time for you to leave!"

Jeremy gave him a mock glare. "You'd better be civil, you scoundrel," he warned. "I might be able to jeopardize your marriage to my only, beloved sister."

"But you wouldn't do that, would you, brother?"

"No. You can keep her!" he replied laughing.

Robert and Julianne went down the stairs ahead of the other two, earnestly discussing something or other. Jeremy and Georgiana followed at a more leisurely pace, each occupied with his or her own thoughts, which were unconsciously very similar. Finally Jeremy spoke up. "Miss Darcy, would you be affronted in any way were I to write to you from London?"

Georgiana smiled. "Of course not Mr. Philips. Should I be?" Seeing that he was a bit taken aback by her answer, she hastened to add, "Please do write to me, I would be very happy to correspond with you. I'd hate to see our friendship end."

They reached the bottom of the staircase and Jeremy took her hand in his and kissed it gently. "I never want it to see it end Georgiana."

The carriages departed, and Julianne stayed outside, waving till she could not see her brother's carriage any longer. Robert went up to her. "My dear, I think you need to be cheered up quite a bit!"

"I'll miss him, Robert."

"Now you have me," he replied. She nodded sadly. "Oh come on," he continued. "I don't want to see you sad. Is there anything I can do?"

"Why don't we go for a walk?" she asked him. "A walk always improves my spirits! Why don't we go to Lambton?"

Robert's grin faltered. "Lambton? Why would you want to go to Lambton?"

"I want to look at some shops, go round, meet people. Please Robert, please!"

He sighed, "Oh all right then!"

Careful!

I know that!

They walked it to Lambton and the little village was bustling with activity. Many villagers looked quite surprised as the couple walked leisurely, holding hands and chatting happily. They all knew who they were, and the gossip went around like an autumn breeze.

"People are looking at us, Robert. You think we should hold hands?"

"Do you care what people say?"

"No, but I don't think it really appropriate, everyone seems to be talking about us."

"We are engaged and I want people to know!"

Julianne suddenly stopped. "Oh look at that cloth! I'll buy it and sew a little dress for the baby!"

"You sew? And why a dress? Are you sure the baby is going to be a girl?" he asked.

"Well a little dress is the only thing I can sew. Maybe by the time another Darcy is born, I would have improved my expertise!"

Robert grinned. "And would that baby be a William or a Robert the second?"

Julianne laughed and suddenly groaned. "Look who's coming," she said. "Isn't that Jack Harper?"

Her fiance paled when he caught sight of his friend. "Darcy, my charming Miss Philips! What a wonderful surprise!" He caught her hand and kissed it, while she rolled her eyes. Robert stared at him, his face white and pinched.

"What are you doing here?" he demanded in a strained voice.

"I couldn't leave without giving you a message!" he said dramatically.

"What message?"

"Well Molly sends her best regards, and she also said that you forgot this" he said pulling out a cravat from his pocket. "You moron, you left it in her bedroom!"


Chapter 12
For a few minutes, none of the three spoke. Suddenly Julianne reached out and took the cravat that was still in Jack's outstretched hand. She handled it slowly, and looked up to face Robert. His face was pale, and his look of horror was only mirrored in her own expression. "Molly," she murmured flatly, and her hurt expression turned into one of absolute disgust. "I can't believe it," she said her voice still void of any emotion. "All you have told me, all that was between us, was just a lie." It was not an accusation, she seemed just to be stating a fact, and that made it all the worse for Robert, who felt as if the entire world was collapsing around him.

Julianne turned around and ran off. Robert quickly reached her, and grabbed her by the arm. "Julianne, listen to me, it is not as it seems, please stop!"

She shook her head and tried to tear her arm away from his grasp. "Let go," she hissed. "I don't want to make a scene here. Just let me go!"

Robert didn't remove his hold. "Not until you hear what I have to tell you!"

Julianne faced him squarely. "Nothing that you have to say to me will ever induce me to listen. Now, just leave me alone, and do not even dare to follow me!" With a final ounce of strength, she escaped from his grip and ran off, as fast as she could.

He was going to follow her, when he suddenly heard a snicker from behind him. It was Harper, who had witnessed the whole scene with all the gusto of a theatre lover at a performance of Shakespeare's plays. Robert felt an incredible surge of fury rise at the sight of the man who was supposed to be his friend, and grabbed him by lapel of his coat, forgetting for a moment his initial resolve to follow Julianne. He dragged him into an alley behind an old shop, trying not to give the already astonished villagers anything else to talk about. He slammed Harper's head against the wall and fought any urge to beat the life out of him. "Why?" he managed to hiss. "Why did you do that?"

Jack leered. "I didn't do anything. You were the one in bed with Molly, not I!"

Robert tightened his grasp angrily, partly because he knew that what Jack was saying was truth. "You knew that Molly didn't mean anything to me! Why did you tell Julianne? Do you want her for yourself?"

"Don't flatter yourself," the other spat. "I don't want your woman!"

"Tell me you have a motive for being such a vicious rogue," said Robert evenly. "Tell me that you didn't do this just for simple mischief!"

Harper glared at him, and Robert was taken aback when he saw the hatred in his eyes. "I hate you," he said in a low, menacing voice. "I followed you to Derbyshire, and when I say Miss Philips, I knew what would hurt you the most. I wanted you to pay for the death of my father!"

"What?" Robert was flabbergasted. What did he have to do with Mr. Harper's death? Then suddenly he remembered. Frederick Harper, one of his father's debtors, couldn't pay his debts, had resorted to ...

"I found my father in his study. He had hanged himself," replied Jack bitterly. Seeing the expression on Robert's face, he realized that the young man, who was still pushing him against the wall, had remembered the connection. "It was your father's fault," he accused. "He drove my father to ruin!"

Robert shook his head vehemently. "That's not the true story! Your father ruined himself with his gambling. My father lent him money, then only wanted what was rightfully his! He never put pressure on him."

"I don't believe you," Jack replied bitterly.

"And I do not care," Robert snapped back. "I'm sorry for what happened to your father, and if you had any fragment of decency in you, I would offer you any help, but now! I know now who you really are and I don't want to have anything to do with you."

Harper looked at him defiantly. "I don't want anything from you, seeing your state now is enough! Come on, why don't you beat me now?"

Robert let go of him. "I have better things to do Jack. And thank your lucky stars, because if I started beating you, I wouldn't have been able stop." He gave him one last disgusted look and cursed himself for losing so much time with him, when he could have been following the girl he loved, the same one he had hurt so cruelly.

Julianne ran through the trees, blinded by her tears and breathless from her sobbing and her frantic dash. She chose not to stick to the path, because she could hear Robert's voice calling out her name from behind her.

Robert ... Liar!

She ran through a shortcut she had discovered during the early days of her visit at Pemberley, and very soon found herself within sight of the great house. Her thoughts were in an utter state of confusion as she remembered all the particulars of her relationship with him.

"I don't want any more secrets between us." LIAR!

"We are engaged and I want everyone to know!" FRAUD!

That is why he came late yesterday. That's the reason for our engagement. He wanted to escape from any responsibilities concerning Molly!

Julianne had never felt so hurt, so betrayed and humiliated in her life! She didn't know what to do now, or how to act. She ran quickly up the stairs that led to the front door, and found herself bumping into Darcy.

Robert rushed inside the house, hoping against hope that Julianne had arrived there before him. He had run all the way from Lambton, hoping that he would meet her along the way, but he had not seen any trace of her. Georgiana, Elizabeth and Darcy met him in the hall, and the looks on their faces gave him the assurance he needed. At least, Julianne was at Pemberley.

"Where is she?" he asked breathlessly.

"I think you have some explaining to do," said Elizabeth sternly. "Can you tell me why my cousin burst into the house breathless and sobbing, and why she ran up to her room without talking to anyone?"

"Didn't she tell you?" asked Robert, not knowing whether to be surprised or relieved.

It was Darcy now who spoke up. "She bumped into me, but she refused to tell me anything before she spoke to you. She said that she didn't want to show you in a bad light before us before confronting you"

Robert was touched. He had treated her so abominably, and yet she wanted to give him a fair trial. Julianne was so decent! The thought of losing her suddenly hit him as a hard reality. No, he couldn't let her go, he would have to talk to her, to cajole forgiveness. He was ready to beg her to forgive him, he would do anything!

Suddenly he heard a noise, and saw her standing at the top of the stairs. Her face was still pale and her eyes were swollen and red from crying, but she held her head high, and regarded him with the air of stubborn dignity that he had so often witnessed and admired. He slowly mounted the stairs, while the Darcys discreetly left them alone, still bemused and totally at loss.

Before Robert could say a word, Julianne spoke up. Her voice, which was before flat and unemotional, was now broken with sadness and bitterness. She still held the incriminating cravat in her hand, and was caressing it mechanically. "I've been trying to convince myself that this is not true, that it is all a mistake or a joke," she began. "But I can't believe it anymore. Unfortunately, all your behaviour towards me seems to confirm all that Jack Harper has implied. Now, I want you to respect me enough to tell me the whole truth."

Robert looked down in absolute shame, and knew that he had to come clean. "It's true Julianne, I cannot deny it."

She closed her eyes in despair as his words confirmed all her deepest fears, and then walked slowly towards her room. Robert followed her in silence, and she made no protest. He had no way of knowing what she was thinking, because her faced masked all emotions. They entered her room and stood in total silence, until Julianne turned around, and flung the cravat angrily into the fire. "Why Robert?" she demanded. "Why did you do this to me? Did I wrong you in any way? Is there anything wrong with me?" She was facing him squarely now, her expression laced with a different emotions that were difficult to fathom.

"There is nothing wrong with you Julianne! It was just a stupid, horrible, idiotic mistake! I am to blame!" he cried. Then seeing that she did not answer, he continued. "I promise, I swear that I won't do it again."

Julianne narrowed her eyes. "From now on you can do anything you like Mr. Darcy, because your actions will not concern me anymore." Robert gasped incredulously and she went on. "I want this farcical engagement to end, and I hope that any relationship of ours will come to the same amicable conclusion."

"What?! NO! It can't finish like this!" he cried. "Molly meant nothing to me! I was just drunk; I didn't know what I was doing! Surely you can see that?"

She regarded him coldly. "All I can see Mr. Darcy is that you spent the night with another woman, and that you did not have the courage and decency to confess your disgusting behaviour. You tried to take me on, and the worst thing is that I would have believed any of your lies had we not met Mr. Harper." She took a deep breath and went on. "You were right when you said we must wait to get married. Luckily, our engagement ended before it was announced on the papers, and no irreparable harm has been done. We are both young, and have much to look forward to."

Robert could not believe his ears. Is it all over? He was so sorry for what he had done, couldn't she see that he was desperate?

Of course she can't see it! She is hurt, heartbroken, betrayed, angry, need I go on?

"I don't want our story to end," he said, his voice breaking. "Julianne, I love you."

It was the first time he had said those words, and they both knew it. However, Julianne's resolved was not to be shaken. "That is a bit too little, too late, Mr. Darcy," she said angrily. "You have had your share of the fun, and it is now my turn to lay down the rules! Our engagement is over, and that is my last word." She turned around and walked to the window. "Now get out," she snapped. "And stop making a fool of yourself!"


Chapter 13
Darcy and Elizabeth heard the loud sound of a slamming door, and then absolute silence. Georgiana looked at them, totally bewildered, but neither they could offer some kind of explanation other than that of a serious dispute between the two lovers. They walked cautiously to the hall, where they could see Robert walking slowly down the stairs. His face was dazed, pale, the very picture of a defeated man. Darcy had never known his cousin to look so devastated and was immediately hit by a sense of foreboding. All too familiar feelings lashed at him, and he realized what had happened to the young man.

He looks just like I did after that damn proposal. Robert, I think you totally blew it this time.

His cousin walked over to him slowly, and shook his head. "Darcy, she has just ruined my life," he said, his voice visibly shaken.

Elizabeth bristled. "I seriously doubt that my cousin has the disposition or inclination to do so, Robert Darcy," she said severely, slyly ignoring her husband's earnest looks of disapprobation. "At least," she added, "not without sufficient reason!"

At this comment, Robert's sorrow seemed to take a turn for fury and he swiftly turned round to place a piercing glare at his cousin's wife, whom she impeccably imitated, before hurrying up the staircase to offer comfort to Julianne.

Darcy caught his angry relative by the arm and dragged him into his study. He pushed him firmly on a chair while he leant back on his desk, all obliging and ready to listen. "Tell me what happened Robert, and I want the truth. Why was Julianne so upset?"

"Darcy, were you aware that last week I asked Julianne to marry me?"

The astounded reaction Robert was expecting did not come. His cousin, who knew all too well about Robert and Julianne's relationship, just gestured with his hands for him to go on. Robert did go on, haltingly at first, but then his story gained more and more feeling as he described what had passed between him and his fiancee. "Lord, Darcy! It was just a mistake! Why can't she understand that?" He got up furiously from his chair and paced around the room. "Damn Harper! Damn Molly, whoever she is!"

Darcy could take it no longer. Had his uncle reared such an idiot for a son? "Why don't you start damning yourself?" he demanded. "Robert, you know you are the sole responsible for what happened, so stop this stupid self pity. It will have absolutely no effect on me."

Robert stared at him, realizing from the stern look on the man's face that he was not to expect sympathy from Fitzwilliam Darcy. "If Harper had not set me up --"

"Oh please! There will always be Harpers around setting you up but, unfortunately for you, there will be only one Julianne, and that you have lost by your irresponsible behaviour!"

"It wasn't my fault!"

"Then whose fault was it? Tell me that! Who was with the barmaid while his unsuspecting fiancee was at home?" he demanded. Robert did not answer and Darcy lashed on. "When will you start taking some responsibilities of your actions? For God's sake you're not a ten year old shrimp any longer!"

"Oh, I forgot your perfection Fitzwilliam," he snapped. "You are so responsible aren't you? A perfect home, a perfect wife, doting servants! Where could one err?"

"Oh you think I've had a perfect life don't you? You know well enough what my life was. At your age I had to take care of the whole estate and a twelve year old sister, alone! How would you have liked that?" He took a deep breath and glared at the downcast young man in front of him. "You need a good doze of good sense slammed right into you Robert," he continued. "You have had too much your own way, and I was glad that you had set your heart on such a sensible girl." He frowned in disgust. "Now look what you've done1"

"All right! Stop now! You're right, I am to blame," he interrupted bitterly. "I know it now, like I always knew it before." He ran his hand helplessly through his dark hair and refused to meet Darcy's eye. "I hurt her, I know that but I'm sorry for what I've done. This is so stupid! It's not like I fell in love with another woman or anything. Darcy, I can't even remember Molly's face!"

"What?" he asked. Had Robert been so drunk?

Robert nodded and sat down again, looking down on his boots. "I don't remember a thing of what happened last night. Fitzwilliam, it was even my first time," he confessed, gulping. "This was not the way it should have happened! All I remember was finding myself alone in a bed with this horrible headache --" He stopped unable to continue, and found solace in tracing the curved surface of the chair with his finger.

Darcy limited his reaction to one raised eyebrow. "I don't know if this will comfort you Rob, or maybe add insult to your injury, but I now seriously doubt that in your condition, anything really happened last night."

Robert's head snapped up. "What?"

Darcy nodded, and went upon to explain the intricate biological factors (caused by excess alcohol), which would have probably prevented Robert from totally being able to indulge in the pleasures offered by precocious women the previous night. The young man hardly knew whether to be happy or rather humiliated by this knowledge and finally set his heart on the former. "But this solves everything doesn't it?" he asked enthusiastically. "I just have to tell Julianne that nothing happened and--"

"Oh of course! Do that!" replied Darcy, his voice dripping with sarcasm. "How on earth could anyone think you were a flirt! My God, Robert, when it comes to the opposite sex you are totally clueless! Do you think that saying that will reconcile you to Julianne? The whole point is that you were flirting around with Molly when you were supposed to be here. At Pemberley. With her."

There was a pause while his cousin took it all in. "I understand."

"Good."

"But I still don't know what I'm going to do."

"Listen, give her and yourself some time to reflect upon these past weeks. Go back to your estate, spend some time alone or with your father, think about your wrong doings and try to improve. In time she will cool off, and maybe offer you another chance."

"Is this wisdom or experience?" asked Robert slowly.

Darcy looked at him seriously and, with much emotion, admitted to him the story of his first disastrous proposal to Elizabeth, and the terrible months of yearning and heartbreak that followed. Robert listened carefully, enthralled, scarcely believing what he heard. He could have never imagined that such a harmonious relationship could have had such a terrible beginning.

When Darcy finished, Robert put forward the question that was foremost in his mind. "Will you help me Fitzwilliam?" he asked earnestly. His cousin nodded seriously and Robert shook hands with him earnestly. "Thank you," he said. "I guess it is now time for me to pack my trunks."

Elizabeth entered Julianne's room, finding her sobbing pitifully on her bed. The two cousins embraced each other tightly in silence, and stayed like that for a long time, each trying to find the best-suited words to explain what was going on in their minds and heart.

"Sssh," whispered Elizabeth after some time, as she slowly stroked Julianne's hair. "Stop crying now, all will be well, I promise."

Julianne shook her head vehemently. "No, nothing will be well, not while we're both under the same roof!"

"What did he do to you Ju?" asked Elizabeth gently. "Please tell me, keeping it to yourself is so much worse!"

Her cousin steeled herself, and although she never wished her brother's presence more than she did at that moment, she contented herself by telling her story to another – almost equally dear—listener.

"So now you know everything," she concluded. "And you may guess why I am determined to leave Pemberley tomorrow."

"What? Leave Pemberley? No Julianne, please," pleaded Elizabeth. "I want to be near you in this time of sorrow."

"No," she replied stubbornly. "You should not be worrying about me in your condition. You have your husband and your unborn child to think about! Staying here will bring nothing but more distress, to all concerned."

"But I don't want you to go, you'll be alone in Hertfordshire!"

"I will not be alone, there will be my parents, your parents, the Lucases…"

"You know what I mean!"

"I'm not worried Lizzie," she said with a shadow of her old smile. "Why, being with Mamma will do me good, I'm sure. Probably, her influence will make marriage seem detestable as it once was!"

They both looked away from the eyes of the other, and did not speak, trying to comfort themselves with silence.

Robert Darcy left the next day at dawn, with only his cousin to bid him goodbye. He left in shame, but with a determined resolution to make amends, and to win back the heart he had so carelessly thrown away. It was a difficult task to do and he knew it, but he was able to derive some comfort from the knowledge that Fitzwilliam Darcy was willing to help him and he was certain that where that great man was concerned, nothing could really go wrong.

Some hours later, the Darcy's were saying goodbye to their other guest. While the footmen piled the trunks on the carriage, Elizabeth silently fussed over Julianne, tucking a stubborn lock of hair under the bonnet, helping her on with the gloves and trying to make her as warm as possible. Julianne was not offended at being treated like a little girl, in fact these tiny actions made her love her cousin all the more, and rendered her departure incredibly difficult. "You should not be out here in the cold, Lizzie," she began.

"I wouldn't be inside for anything in the world," replied Elizabeth, sobbing.

Julianne held back the tears as she embraced her and Georgiana goodbye, but broke down when Darcy bent down to give her an affectionate hug. She would have never imagined it from a man so respectful of propriety and the gesture touched her deeply. She ran to the carriage and refused to look back at them until they were far out of sight.

Tears streamed down both Elizabeth's and Julianne's face, but while the former could seek comfort in the warm arms of a loving husband, the latter had to find solace in the piercing silence of the carriage and the soft velvet seats of the Darcy carriage. She could only hope that time, maybe, would be able to soothe her fresh wounds, and make her forgive, and possibly forget, the man who created such havoc in her young life.

Jeremy stared in dismay at the letters that he held in front of him in the dim light of his lodgings. He had received an account of the same story from Julianne, Robert and Georgiana and could only shake his head ruefully as he tried to think of a way to clear out this mess that his sister and her former fiance had made of their lives. One letter he held most dear though, especially one line from it, so simple, and yet so meaningful.

I sincerely hope Mr. Darcy, that this unfortunate affair will not affect the wonderful friendship that unites us. I would not bear to have it thus interrupted…
Your friend (I hope)

Georgiana Darcy

************

Continued in Part 3

Family Affairs

By Daniela
Part 1|Part 2|Part 3|

Chapter 14
Robert leaned towards the window, trying to soothe his aching head against the cold glass. He had arrived at Haydon, his family estate, a few hours before, and had locked himself in his chambers trying feverishly to give some clear form to his confused thoughts and relive the events of the past days. He was completely immersed in his thoughts, trying to sort out his mistakes. His innumerable mistakes. During this long journey he had come to terms with himself, and tried to figure out what his cousin had meant by "facing his responsibilities" and he had come up with some sensible answers. His responsibility had been to commit himself to Julianne and to respect her enough to be absolutely loyal to her, at all times, without compromise. In this he had failed miserably.

However, Robert knew that the incident with Molly had not been his only blunder, He had entered an engagement without being absolutely sure of himself and had not been able to open his heart to the woman he had planned to share his life with. He would never forget her disgusted look as she addressed him and her words she used to order him out of her room, out of her life.

I want this farcical engagement to end, and I hope that any relationship of ours will come to the same amicable conclusion.

Now, get out and stop making a fool of yourself!

At that moment she had despised him, that same moment in which he finally realized that he loved her completely and was truly ashamed of the abominable way he had treated her throughout their relationship. Robert reread the letter he had written over and over again, steeling himself to pluck up the courage to seal it once and for all and to send it to Hertfordshire. Before leaving Pemberley, Darcy had told him that Julianne would have left some hours after him. The journey was shorter, but would she have arrived safely?

"God, let not anything happen to her," he prayed silently. He paused. "And let her find it in her heart to forgive me someday!"

With that, he sealed the letter, and vowed to send it the following morning.

"I have just received a letter from Robert," announced Darcy as he entered the drawing room of Pemberley a week later.

"What can he have to say?" asked Elizabeth, rather scornfully.

"He apologized again for what happened, and sent you his most humble regards," replied her husband diplomatically.

"Does he mention Julianne at all?"

"Briefly," he fibbed.

Elizabeth sighed. "I feel so guilty about Julianne. If we had not invited that rascal of your cousin none of this terrible mess would have happened!"

Darcy forced himself to feign agreement. He had got used to cope to his wife's strange, pregnancy induced humours, but he was still very glad that Robert's letter was safely hidden in his study, and that his own reply to it was on its way to Northinghamshire. He decided to take an escape route, and changed the subject. "I've also received a letter from Bingley. He says that he and Jane will be moving to their London house for the winter. It seems that they are in search of another estate in which to settle and they decided to spend the time needed to find one away from Meryton."

All this was said in his most neutral voice, but Elizabeth could not help sighing and muttering, "Mamma."

Georgiana however, entered the conversation unexpectedly. "They are going to London? How wonderful!" She suddenly slouched on the couch and let out a deep breath. "The country is so boring in winter!"

Darcy and Elizabeth arched their eyebrows and gave each other a look. That was so like Ò Julianne! Seeing their surprised look, Georgiana sat up quickly and cleared her throat. "Are you really bored?" asked Darcy. "You usually prefer the country to Town. What is this sudden eagerness to go to London?" His sister blushed slightly, but gave him a noncommittal shrug.

Elizabeth decided to take the matter in her own hands. "Would you like me to write to Jane to ask them if you can go visit them for a few weeks?"

Georgiana beamed at her, but Darcy was not so convinced. "I do not like the idea of your going to London without us, and after all you've hardly been at Pemberley for a month!"

There was no answer, but Georgiana looked so dismayed that he had to give up, as usual. "Oh do whatever you like," he grunted. "But see that you behave at least!"

**************************************************************

The servants of Haydon Manor could not quite figure out what had happened to young Master Darcy. Rumours flourished around their quarters and soon reached all the tenants. No one knew for certain what had happened to him, but one thing was certain; Robert Darcy had come back a changed man.

It all began the day after his unexpected arrival at the estate. Robert woke up early after a restless sleep, and after a few seconds of semi consciousness, had been hit by the familiar sensation of pain that had accompanied him all through the journey. To say pain was an understatement, but he could not find any suitable word to explain that feeling he had in his heart, a feeling that he had never felt before in his life, but that threatened to become a life long companion. Unable to go back to sleep, he decided to take a walk around the grounds hoping that the cold morning air would do him some good.

For the first time in his life, he was looking at the estate with a different view. Up to then, Haydon Manor had always been a place to spend a few days in between travels and a location for an occasional ball. As he walked through the grounds, he noticed how well tended they were, and how prosperous the fields looked from the hill on which the house was situated. He had always thought his father to be a good landlord, but he had taken the managing of the estate for granted. It had been Philip Darcy's job. Although his father has been away for some months, Mr. Worthing, the steward, had assured him that everything was under control, and that there had been no outstanding business to tend to.

Maybe your father isn't as irresponsible as you made him out to be in these last years... said an accusing voice within him. Robert cringed and went walking on briskly. He had to admit, the voice was probably right.

As he turned to the back garden, he caught sight of the gardener and his son, who were intently studying the roots of the great elm. Robert looked at them for a long time, feeling some envy towards that young boy whose father was teaching him, with so much enthusiasm, the tricks of his trade. He had never really given parenthood a serious thought, but though he was still young, he felt at that moment, a nagging feeling, a wish for someone to whom he could talk, to whom he could instill the pride and honour of the family. Robert and his father had never shared such a relationship, especially after he had left for school but he knew that most of it was his own fault. He had never sought his father's company and the letters he always wrote to him were just polite, not really affectionate.

Another thought suddenly hit him. He did not even know the gardener's name! What kind of a Master was that who did not know his tenants, and had not cared to try to get to know them? It was on that day that he decided to make up for the lost time, and during the following weeks, to their absolute astonishment, all the tenants received a cordial visit from the Master's son, the same one that had not once before stopped to acknowledge their presence.

*************************************************************

"A letter for you, Miss Philips," announced the maid

"Thank you Lane," replied Julianne. "And thank you for separating these particular letters from the rest, it saves me from answering some very awkward questions," she added with a small smile.

Lane curtsied and left the room, carefully keeping her face void of any possible emotion. It was true that Miss Philips received daily letters from Northinghamshire but it was not for her to comment, especially since the young Miss never seemed to answer them back.

The elderly servant would have been very surprised to know that Julianne did not even open the letters. Every day she would just check the letter's sender, and carelessly toss it into the fire. "This is the fourth letter this week," she said to herself as she watched it burn. "Robert, give up will you?" She walked towards her writing desk, and sat down to answer Jeremy's letter. He seemed to be in very high spirits, and mentioned something about preparing to meet the Bingleys and Georgiana. She wondered what Georgiana would be doing in London at that time of year, but dismissed the thought immediately, like she dismissed all those thoughts remotely connected to her visit to Derbyshire.

****************************************************************

Georgiana shifted on her seat impatiently. They were soon to arrive in London, and Jane and Bingley were rather surprised at her enthusiasm. She secretly went over the letter that Jeremy had written to her, where he had promised to meet her as soon as possible.

I can't wait Jeremy, I just cannot wait to see you again!

"Any letters from Hertfordshire Merriman?" asked Robert eagerly.

"No sir," replied the butler. "But there is one from Tuscany, from Mr. Darcy."

"Tuscany? Wasn't my father in France some weeks ago?" asked Robert, annoyed. He still couldn't get used to the usual disappointment of receiving no answer from Julianne. "Doesn't he know that we have an estate to run?"

Henry Merriman looked down, to avoid looking at the young Master in his eyes. He could not trust himself to hide his smile. "Sir, if I may say so, I believe that Mr. Worthing mentioned something about Mr. Darcy visiting an acquaintance of his who is a doctor."

"A doctor? In the Italian peninsula*? What is wrong with my father?" The butler did not answer, obviously he did not know. "Prepare my trunks at once," snapped Robert. "I'm off to Florence to meet my father!"

He went up to his chambers, to write again to Julianne, but he suddenly stopped. Julianne had not answered any of his letters. Should he give her some time to think about her feelings? He put his pen away slowly, and sat back. "If time is what you need to forgive me, then time is what you will get," he said to himself sadly.

"No letters for me Lane? Are you sure?" asked Julianne.

"Yes Miss. Quite sure Miss." With a curtsy, the maid left the room.

Julianne sat down on her bed. He had not written for three days. Did it take him such a short time to forget her?

What do you expect? You never answered his letters! Happy now? Isn't that what you wanted?

That was what she told him that she wanted, but she was not so sure about that anymore. She was not happy when he wrote, but felt even more wretched without his letters. She stared at the fire, not knowing whether to laugh or cry. She had won a victory but maybe it was one she could have perfectly done without...

To be continued...

*At the time the all Jane Austen's novels were set, Italy as we know it today did not exist. Tuscany, a region in Italy, was at that time under the Austrian empire, but the peninsula itself was still known as "Italy". (All this information was kindly given in an interesting monologue by a friend who is particularly keen on Italian history --- thank you Jean-Paul!)


Chapter 15
"Merriman, are my trunks ready?" asked Robert anxiously.

"Certainly, Sir."

"Thank you. Has Paul seen to all the arrangements for my lodgings in Florence?"

"Yes, sir." The elderly butler paused and then cleared his throat. "Master Robert, if I may express an opinion," he began.

"Of course Merriman, by all means," replied Robert as he continued to struggle to get into his coat.

"Sir, are you quite sure that your presence is needed in Tuscany? After all, your father may be visiting this doctor just because he is an old acquaintance," he said reasonably. Henry Merriman had been in the service of the Darcys of Haydon Manor for over thirty years, and was respected enough by the household and the Master himself to be allowed to question his decisions. However, he wasn't quite so sure about the Master's son and waited rather cautiously for his answer or reprove.

"You're right Merriman," replied Robert seriously and the butler breathed a sigh of relief. "But have you ever had the feeling that something was really wrong? I mean, why would my father go to Tuscany all of a sudden, without telling anyone of his plans, just to visit an old acquaintance of his, who also happens to be a famous doctor? I don't know if you are aware of this Merriman, but Alfredo Moratti is famous all over the Continent."

Merriman shook his head, he didn't know about that last fact, and could not help wondering whether the young Master was right after all. "Well, Sir, I wish you a pleasant journey, and I hope to see you very soon again at Haydon."

Robert forced a smile. "Thank you. I hope that in a couple of weeks, I'll be back, and my father will be with me." He gave him a pat on the shoulder. "Goodbye Harry," he said and walked out of the room.

Merriman stared after him, and arched an indignant eyebrow. "HARRY?!"

***************************************************************

London

The Bingleys had been in London for a week, and had invited some friends for dinner. Among them, there were of course Miss Bingley and the Hursts, the Gardiners, and also Jeremy. All the acquaintances of the Mr. Bingley, except for his sisters of course, were charmed by the young Mr. Philips' polite, easy manners and by his handsome looks. Caroline Bingley couldn't help associating him with the "odious" Mrs. Darcy, especially when she saw that even her dear friend Georgiana clearly preferred his company to hers.

No one really commented on the attention that Miss Darcy and Mr. Philips were giving each other, but it was not really hard to realize that they was a great attraction between them and that if anything, their friendship was based on ease and affability, and was strong and loyal.

At the moment, they were both sitting at the piano. Georgiana had gathered enough courage to perform, probably because of the insistence from Jeremy's side, and the fact that he had offered to turn the pages for her. They were close enough to carry on a conversation without being heard by all the other guests, and could discuss the events that had taken place at Pemberley with relative ease.

"How is your sister?" whispered Georgiana tentatively. "I know that she writes to Elizabeth quite often, but from what I hear, she avoids the subject of my cousin completely."

"I haven't seen her since I left Derbyshire, but she doesn't write anything about Robert either," he answered in a low voice.

"I would love to see her again Mr. Philips," said Georgiana gravely. "Do you think she would mind if I would visit her at your estate some day?"

ESTATE? What kind of delusion did this girl live in? Did she think that he was the future master of an estate like Pemberley???

Georgiana noticed the strange look that Jeremy was giving her and wondered what she had said to offend him.

"Miss Darcy, my family does not own an estate. We live in a modest house in Meryton," he said rather stiffly.

Georgiana blushed furiously. She had hurt him by that stupid allusion to his house, she was sure. How could she have been so stupid? He must think that she wanted to show off his inferiority! "Mr. Philips," she said hastily. "I would love to see your house too. I'm sure it must be wonderfully charming!"

Oh lovely, Georgiana. Wonderfully charming. What are you talking about? His mother's tea set?

Jeremy gave a small grimace and went off. Her heart sank as she saw him leaving the room to go out in the balcony. As soon as she finished the piece she was playing, she went out after him, to find him deep in thought.

"Mr. Philips, Jeremy, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to--"

"Georgiana, I think I've made the biggest mistake in my life," he said seriously, still refusing to look at her.

"What mistake?" she asked, sincerely puzzled.

"I've made the mistake of falling desperately in love with a lady who totally beyond my reach," he replied, facing her for the first time.

Georgiana immediately grasped his meaning, and tears welled her eyes. "It wasn't a mistake Jeremy. I'm not beyond your reach, don't say that!" Jeremy didn't answer, but just shook his head. "I don't care whether you have an estate, or a house or a stable to live in! I just don't care if there is you," she sobbed.

"You may not care, Georgiana, but I do," he answered. "It is never going to be said that Georgiana Darcy married a man who was unable to provide for her the riches she was accustomed to." Before she could say anything he made his way back to the house, leaving her in to cry. He left a few minutes later, amidst the amazement of those present.

****************************************************************

The Philips' house in Meryton...

Julianne went slowly down to the drawing room, and cringed when she discerned the familiar soprano pitch of her aunt Bennet and the equally musical tone of her mother. She entered slowly and sat down by the window, trying to attract the less attention possible.

"Have you received any news from my Lizzy, Julianne?" asked Mrs. Bennet.

"Oh yes, I've received a letter from her just yesterday," her niece replied stiffly.

"My dear Elizabeth, I always wonder why she does not write to me more often! I'm sure that stern husband of hers is behind all this," the indomitable lady cried.

"Oh no Aunt Fanny. Mr. Darcy is a very kind husband. Lizzy is just very busy running the estate," snapped Julianne.

"Oh sister! And such a grand estate it is too," cried Mrs. Bennet, addressing Mrs. Philips. "I sincerely hope that your dear Julianne would have the sense of securing a rich husband!"

"Oh Fanny, I agree! And have you noticed that my dear Julianne has dropped all her rude manners since she came back from Derbyshire? She doesn't whistle or kick stones all over the place now!"

Julianne rolled her eyes. She hated being talked about, especially while she was still in the room! She excused herself and hurriedly left the room.

Mrs. Philips frowned. "She has become such a disagreeable girl. I am quite put out!"

"I hope she has not grown accustomed to the riches and finery in which my dear Lizzy is living," exclaimed Mrs. Bennet. "It is very likely that she would have to settle for a husband of much more modest means!" She paused and suddenly whispered. "You don't think, sister, that she is pining for some lost lover do you?"

"I sincerely hope not Fanny! If I knew that she had a beau and let him go, I would never see her again!"

**************************************************************

Florence...

Robert left quickly his inn, and walked briskly in the direction that led to the Moratti mansion. Although it was now the beginning of February, the weather was milder than in Britain, and the sun was bright in a cloudless sky. He reached the manor, and found that unfortunately, the Signori Moratti e Darcy were not at home.

"Where could I find Mr. Darcy?" asked Robert in relatively fluent Italian. He breathed a silent thank you to a college mate at Cambridge, who had had an Italian mother, and who had taught him the language in their free time.

"The signore mentioned going to the chapel near Pontevecchio, Sir."

Robert nodded quickly, and left off in search for his father. As he walked along the "Old Bridge", with all it's shops and banks, he could not help wondering about his father. No one who knew Phillip Darcy would think him religious enough to go and pray, especially in a Papist chapel in a foreign country! Something was wrong, he was almost sure of it. So caught was he in his reveries, that he hardly noticed a little girl running straight into him until he heard her angry cry at being thrown back on the ground.

"I'm sorry, Miss," he said apologetically.

The girl, who couldn't be more than ten years of age, flashed a pair of blue angry eyes at him, and he caught his breath. That expression...it was so much like the look Julianne gave him before...He shook his head quickly. This was too much! The girl was still looking at him angrily. "Why don't you look where you're going?" she cried in indignant Tuscan.

"It's my fault, and I apologize again."

"You don't sound or look Italian. You are not Austrian, are you?" she said suspiciously.

Robert smiled a little as he remembered the hatred that most Italians had for their Austrian rulers. "I am English Miss. My name is Robert."

The girl smiled. "I'm Giuliana," she said as skipped off merrily at the sight of a friend of hers.

Giuliana...the English equivalent of Julianne! Robert followed her as she ran off and could not help laughing bitterly. "You will break the hearts of many 'Robertos', Miss Giuliana with your lively manners, I'm sure!" Could it be only a coincidence?

Some time later he reached the small chapel and went quietly inside. He had visited a large number of European churches, but his interest had almost been one limited to a polite tourist. This time however, he immediately sensed an aura of peace and his eyes were caught by the gentle, smiling image of the Madonna holding the small infant Jesus. Robert had never known his mother, but as he looked at the image, he could not help feeling that if she had lived, she would have looked at him in that way, maybe.

He suddenly heard a small gasp in front of him, and Robert found himself staring at his father. It was then his turn to take a small breath. Philip Darcy looked so tired, frail even. He had grown thinner, and his eyes were swollen and surrounded by dark circles.

"Robert, my son! What are you doing here?"

Robert went over to embrace his father. At that moment, in front of God, he realized that his worse fears were true and that his world was totally falling apart.

Pemberley...

Elizabeth was with Mrs. Reynolds looking at the different fabrics with which to sew the curtains of the newly redecorated nursery. Suddenly a maid entered and announced the Master's request to speak to Mrs. Darcy.

"Please tell him that I will be in his study later, Emily," said Elizabeth, absentmindedly.

"If you please, ma'am. I think it is quite urgent," said the maid, blushing furiously.

Elizabeth looked up abruptly and walked quickly in the direction of her husband's study. She found him sitting in front of his desk, drinking a glass of wine and running his hands helplessly in his dark curls.

"What is it Fitzwilliam? Is it bad news, from Georgiana or Longbourn?"

"It is bad news. I've received a letter from Robert," he replied, his voice breaking. "It's my Uncle Phillip. He's ill, Elizabeth. He is dying."


Chapter 16
"Jeremy? Hey Philips, are you listening to any word that I've said?"

"What?" he asked, startled out of his own thoughts. "I'm sorry Gordon, you were saying?"

"Oh nothing," replied Gordon MacKay good-naturedly. He and Jeremy had been friends since they had met in Scotland ten years before and had decided to share their lodgings at Oxford. He had realized that his conversation had been nothing but a monologue in these last few minutes and was wondering what had got into his usually responsive friend. "What happened to you? You haven't been yourself since you went visiting your cousin and her husband yesterday."

Jeremy took off his reading glasses and rubbed his eyes wearily. All attempts to concentration had been in vain that day. "I'm just tired, that's all," he replied noncommittally.

"Does it have to do with that Miss Darcy who keeps on writing letters?" Gordon asked, with a wide grin.

Jeremy glared at him and his friend realized that he had hit the nail right on its head. "Gordon, do you think that a wealthy, sophisticated lady would ever marry the likes of me?'

"Philips, you would be lucky if any girl even looked at you!" Then, seeing that his friend was not amused, turned to a serious tone. "What are the likes of you Jeremy? You are a gentleman, with a brilliant future ahead of you! Why wouldn't a lady want to share your ambition?'

"What future, Gordon? A legal practice in Meryton?'

"Have you ever heard of London, you idiot? Who said that you would have to be confined to the country?" exclaimed Gordon, rather exasperated. "And anyway, there is more to a man than his wealth, you know!" Jeremy looked at him doubtfully. "And I'm sure that Miss Darcy, who seems much more intelligent than you, realizes that!"

This conversation continued for some time, until Jeremy Philips left for the Bingley townhouse hoping for forgiveness from the lady of his dreams.

As soon as the butler let him in, a pale, worried Jane came to meet him. "Jeremy, Georgiana has just received bad news from her brother..."

Miss Darcy entered the drawing room where Jeremy was waiting for her. Her eyes were red and her face was tear streaked, but that did not prevent her from glaring at her visitor. "If you have come to speak about the nonsense (she almost spat the word) you went on about last night, you can just save yourself the trouble Mr. Philips!"

Jeremy was taken aback. He had expected icy indifference, or an outburst of some sort but not this violent lashing! As he looked at her, however, he realized that sorrow and hurt, rather than anger were fuelling her flare-up. "Miss Darcy, I had the news about your uncle," he began.

Georgiana began sobbing again. "Poor Uncle Phillip, poor Robert," she whispered tearfully. "Just go away, Jeremy. I don't need any more troubles!"

Jeremy ignored her and walked slowly towards her taking her hand gently. "Is there anything I can do for you?" he asked.

At that moment, Georgiana forgot, or ignored, all teachings of demeanor and propriety she had always been taught and buried herself in Jeremy's embrace. "Just be there for me. Forget all about money, and class and social standing, and just stay with me!" Jeremy held the trembling figure tightly and stroked her hair. He would never let her go again. A sudden thought hit him. "Georgiana, would Robert mind if I told Julianne?"

The carriage was well on its way to Northinghamshire, and Robert hoped that he and his father would reach Haydon in a couple of hours' time. The journey from the Continent had been long and tiring but uneventful, except for the fact that Mr. Darcy had wanted to prolong his stay for another couple of weeks, while his son insisted on returning to England as soon as possible.

Robert gave his father a long look. He certainly did look tired, but the reunion with his son seemed to have done him a world of good. He did not look so pale, and Robert even had to face the mortification of seeing his father flirt good-naturedly with a handsome Italian widow who had, for some time, shared the trip with them. Robert could not help smiling at the recollection of it all, though the pain of finding out about his father's illness plagued him incessantly.

Phillip Darcy caught his son staring at him from the opposite seat of the carriage and folded away the newspaper he was reading. "Robert, stop gazing at me like that! It is quite unnerving to see those large brown eyes of yours fixed upon me," he said with a smile. "I am not an invalid, at least not yet." Robert frowned; he really could not see the humour in his father's words. "Come on son," Phillip continued. "Try looking at the bright side of it all after all. I am ill, and I know that, but at least I also know that my time is near and I can make the most of what I have left."

Robert glared at him. "Father that is not funny! It's morbid."

A sigh came from his companion. "I know it is not funny, Robert. I think I know that more than you believe," he said sadly and his son felt immediately ashamed of his outburst and for failing to see that his father's fear. "I was aware of my illness long before I went to see my friend Alfredo and I know now that I can only do two things, lad, either despair and curse God and the heavens for my misfortune or else put on a brave front and pass this time with the person I love most in this world, my one and only son."

Robert felt tears well in his eyes and brushed them away carelessly. "I am sorry Father, for not being there for you, for being so selfish --"

Phillip silenced him with a wave of his hand. "Now don't be ridiculous Robert. I won't have this sentimental nonsense from you. Sit down quietly now, and listen to what I have to tell you." They gave each other a lopsided, identical grin, and Robert buried himself meekly in the plush seat. "When you met me in that chapel, I wasn't praying God to send me a miraculous cure, or something of the sort. I have lived my life and I have had my fair share of mistakes, especially with you. I prayed God to help me sort out my relations with you, and to have the good fortune of living enough to see you take over my estate, hopefully with a responsible, intelligent woman by your side."

His son looked away guiltily and Phillip gave him a curious stare. "There was a chance of that a few months ago, Dad. However I managed to ruin everything with my stupid, irresponsible behaviour!"

"What are you talking about?"

Slowly and painfully, Robert told the story of his visit to Pemberley to his father, who listened attentively, his expression changing from severity, pity and understanding to pure exasperation. He finished with a gulp and angry shake of the head. "She never answered my letters, so any news of her I get from her brother. Father, I feel so bad. Sometimes I think that I just love her too much!"

Phillip looked at his son rather sadly. "Robert, I do feel responsible. My all too friendly ways with women seem to have given you a very wrong conception of love. You must understand that whatever I did in my life, I took great care never to hurt a woman. I never had a relationship with a woman that was not based on mutual agreement that nothing serious would come out of it." He paused but got no reaction from his downcast son. "I never loved a woman other than your own lovely mother, and I can assure you that there is no such thing as loving too much. Why, a wise man had once said that 'if you do not love too much, you do not love enough!'"*

"I still do not know why I acted like that with Julianne, but I do know that Molly was just a mistake and nothing else! I miss her so much Father; my greatest wish was to bring her with me to Haydon, and there she would have been Mistress."

"Have faith my son. Life can take many surprising turns, you know."

"Jeremy! What are you doing here?" cried Julianne gaily as she found her brother waiting in the drawing room in their house in Meryton.

He hugged her gently. "I was granted permission to take special leave from University," he explained. "It is only granted for extraordinary reasons."

Julianne grinned. "And what are these extraordinary reasons? Did you miss your twin sister so much that you had to escape to come back home?'

"I have very important news to give you, Ju."

"Well, speak on. I am all anticipation!" She had still not grasped the seriousness of the conversation.

"Georgiana has just received news from Robert in Tuscany Ò"

"Tuscany? Oh! I wonder what fun he had there!" said Julianne scornfully.

"Did you not know he has been there?"

His sister looked away. "Robert has stopped writing." There was a pause. "And what about him?"

Jeremy told her all he knew, and left her to ponder the news in solitude. Julianne ran up to her room, tears blurring her vision. Poor Robert! What must he be going through and the moment! How could she have scorned him like that? She had ignored his letters, and let her anger and resentment blind her to his shame and his attempts to apologize. He needed a friend now, of that she was sure, and this time she will be there...

"Elizabeth, are you sure you won't mind if I go and spend some time at Haydon?" asked Darcy earnestly.

"Of course not, dear." replied his wife. "Robert needs you, and so does your uncle. Jane will be here with me, and so will Georgiana, so do not worry, I won't be here alone."

"I can't believe this is happening, Robert had been so carefree and happy when he first came here. Now his world seems to be tumbling down just around him. Very soon he will have to take care of all the estate on his own..." Darcy stopped there, experiencing a very painful feeling of deja vu. Robert's age was exactly the same as his when he had lost his father, and he knew how difficult a life on one's own could be.

Elizabeth sensed what her husband was thinking and gave him a reassuring kiss. "You know what he is passing through, and that is why, you have to go and help him!"

Robert was in the study, writing some business letters, after having convinced his father, after a lengthy confrontation to go and have a rest. Phillip Darcy had finally consented to leave the business side of running the estate in his son's hands, for that day, but had insisted on going on a ramble around the grounds, and could be seen talking and joking with the young son of the worthy gardener.

Merriman entered the study after his young master's acknowledgement of his knock and handed him a letter. "Where is it from?" he asked wearily.

"Hertfordshire, Sir. It is from a certain Miss Julianne Philips."

*I do not know who said that, but I came across and I liked it, though I admit that it is a bit cliched...anyway, I hope that you did enjoy this chapter. Let me know what you think!


Chapter 17
Robert lay on his bed, Julianne's letter still clutched tightly in his hand, as he tried to make something out of it. He stared at the canopy for some time, and wrinkled his nose, as was his usual when he was puzzled. An hour before, Merriman had brought him this letter, and he had spent the time reading it over and over again, to be sure of its contents, and each reading brought in him a different emotion. He sighed, and unfolded the paper again.

The letter began coldly, or at the very least formally, as if Julianne was trying to sort out her feelings, or restrain them from flowing out. At least, that is what he was desperately hoping for. However, as the letter progressed, she seemed to write with more ease, and at one point even apologized to him for never reading his letters. Robert shook his head at that. "There is nothing to apologize for, my love. How could you ever think so?" There was a line however, that he could not take off his mind. He repeated it over and over in his mind, trying to hope, yet being terrified to do so.

Mr. Darcy, please try not to despair. My thoughts are always with you, and in my dreams my heart accompanies them.

What did she mean? What will he answer to that? God knew how much he still loved Julianne, but what about her? Was she offering comfort, friendship or --?

There was a knock at the door and his father entered, puzzled at seeing his son sprawled on his bed in the mid-afternoon. "What is the matter, Robert? Is something ailing you?"

Robert rolled over and faced his father, waving the letter. "Guess who has written to me."

"Who?"

"Guess."

Philip Darcy rolled his eyes impatiently. "How could I know? Your cousin, the Pope, the Prince?"

"Julianne."

His father gave him a wide, wicked grin and made him sit up, to be able to favour him with some good slaps on the back. "Ah, my son. I told you that things would be better didn't I?"

Robert nodded and hugged his father. He felt the familiar twinge of pain in his heart when he thought of being separated from the person he grew to love so much, but this time he tried "not to despair".

My thoughts are always with you, and in my dreams my heart accompanies them.

Julianne was thinking pretty much about the same line as she tossed and turned restlessly that night, as she had done often since her return from Derbyshire, and as she had done ALWAYS since she sent the letter. Why had she written that stupid, sentimental line? What was she thinking? It was almost sure now that Robert would misinterpret her, and think that she was still attached to him and then ---

Misinterpret you? Are you quite sure that he will not just see through you and realize that you are still totally in love with him?

She sat up suddenly, trying to draw some comfort from hugging her knees and burying her head in them. She sobbed. This time, however, she was not crying in recollection of what happened at Pemberley, but her tears were directed towards other directions; directions that she was still too confused to figure out.

Oxford

Gordon got up suddenly from his desk and stretched. "Jeremy, I'm totally bored! How long must we stay cooped in these rooms?"

Jeremy didn't even bother to look up from his books. "Examinations are approaching fast Gordon."

"Let's go out for a walk, shall we?"

"No."

"Come on Philips! We won't take long, just the time to charm a few ladies, meet some people, you know, show the world that we are not the eccentric hermits we seem to be," said his friend, trying to muster some enthusiasm in Jeremy.

"No. Gordon, why don't you go yourself? You are not really helping me concentrate."

Gordon walked towards his friend and sat on the desk, facing him squarely. "Philips, where has your concept of F.U.N. gone to?'

Jeremy met his gaze. "I think I must have left it with your concept of S.T.U.D.Y." he replied sardonically.

"Why are you doing this Jeremy? You have been with that nose of your stuck in those books for days! What are you trying to prove?"

"I'm not trying to prove anything, but it might interest you to know that our careers, depend on these books, and this university!"

"I know that!" snapped Gordon. "But you still have not answered my question. We've been here for months now, and I never saw you behave in this manner!" A sudden thought hit him. "Oh my God, don't tell me you're doing this for Miss Darcy."

Jeremy paused a moment before answering. "Yes."

"But you told me that she loved you and Ü"

"It doesn't follow that since I won her heart, I would win her brother's consent," he interrupted irritably.

"And how are you planning to do so?"

"I want to be the best lawyer there is," he answered determinedly. "I want to be great and powerful enough to be able to ask for her hand with my head held high."

For once Gordon took his words seriously. "I understand," he said simply and walked over to his desk. He gave his friend a mock glare, which was returned by a good-natured smile, and opened again his books without another word on boredom.

Darcy alighted from the carriage, and found his cousin and his father waiting for him eagerly. He inhaled deeply, and his eyes swept towards the house. He had always had wonderful memories of Haydon, because it was there that he had spent a lot of his childhood. He hadn't been there since his father had died, both because he had been caught up completely in running the estate and looking after Georgiana, and also because he had had sadly lost contact with this part of the family. However, he was there now, his cousin needed him, and it was good to back.

His uncle greeted him warmly and Darcy could not help being surprised at the reception. Phillip Darcy seemed to be in excellent spirits. He talked incessantly about the estate, the sightseeing he had done in Italy, and during dinner even scolded Robert for picking on his food, and asked for another helping. When he left to go and rest in the library, as was his usual, Darcy looked at his cousin in astonishment.

Robert quietly sipped his wine. "It's all an act, Darcy."

"I had figured that out, Robert, but it still amazes me."

"He is such a brave, great man, Fitzwilliam. I'll never forgive myself for not noticing that before," said Robert sadly.

Darcy didn't know how to answer to that. He knew that all attempts at comfort would be in vain, so he tried to change the subject. "How are you finding the task of running the estate?" he asked seriously. Robert shrugged. "I need your help, and I'm glad you came. I never thought it would take so much work to manage the land efficiently and keep the tenants satisfied."

"I will do whatever I can to help you."

"Was it like that when your own father died, Darcy?" he asked suddenly.

His cousin swallowed painfully. "Yes," he replied.

"At times, I just feel so alone in this house. There are so many servants, and yet, the loneliness is so unbearable."

Darcy knew exactly what his cousin meant. "I know the feeling Robert. I passed through so many times. I was so caught up in my own sorrow that I never even let Georgiana help me through it."

"Now you have Elizabeth," he said, rather enviously.

"Now I have Elizabeth," Darcy repeated. "But I didn't have her at the time. If it weren't for her..."

Robert sat back and sighed. "Darcy I have a secret to tell you," he announced with a small smile.

"What is it?"

"I intend to ask Julianne to marry me again, soon."

Darcy looked at him closely. "And how do you know she'll even talk to you again?"

"She sent me a letter a few days ago. And I am hoping," said Robert tersely.

"Well, if you would like a romantic setting," began Darcy, grinning, "you can wait till summer. I'd like you and Uncle Phillip to come to Pemberley for the baby's birth, and Elizabeth and I intend to ask Jeremy and Julianne to come together with the Bennets."

Robert smiled at him. "Thank you."

"Don't flatter yourself. This has been planned ages ago," he teased. "Make sure you don't mess it up this time!"

The months passed quickly, and the correspondence between Robert and Julianne, as well as the one between Georgiana and Jeremy went on unabated. While the letters of the latter were of a more friendly type, the former wrote in a somewhat bashful manner, but one that became easier with each letter that passed. Robert and Julianne never spoke about the past, but refrained also from writing about the future, both preferring to stick to the safe, comfortable present. What they both held in their hearts however, was something that they never disclosed to anyone.

The twins were lying comfortable on a bench in the garden of their house. Jeremy had returned home for the summer, and was due to go back to Oxford in September. The late July sun was hot, but it was rendered pleasant by the soft cool breeze that hit their faces at the same time. They were both talking about the invitation they had received from the Darcys to go to Derbyshire with Elizabeth's family to "witness" the birth of their first child.

"So it's back to Pemberley, isn't it?" commented Jeremy, grinning happily from ear to ear.

His sister laughed. "Sometimes I think that our cousins are out of their mind! What with Uncle and Aunt Bennet, Kitty, Mary and the Bingleys, why on earth did they invite us too?"

"Well I have a theory on that," her brother chuckled.

"What is it?"

"Well, except for Jane and her husband, you and I, my dear, are the only people with good sense in the whole family!"

Julianne thought it over. "That is rather mean," she paused, as a twitter of laughter came from inside, "but most true, I'm afraid!"


Chapter 18
Again I thank you for your responses and suggestions. I really appreciated them and I hope that you are satisfied with their outcome ... so far!

Elizabeth's and Darcy's invitation brought forward a flurry of excitement and anticipation in both the Bennet and the Philips household, though the twins were relatively unaffected by it. Jeremy, maybe, was the more eager of the two to visit Derbyshire, and, rather surprisingly, his sister still did not wonder about it. Julianne just thought that he was eager to spend some time with people whom he really liked, and at the same time make the most of the weeks he had away from University. The thought of her brother being attached in any way never did enter her mind, and the fact that the object of his affection was Georgiana Darcy would not have been even remotely contemplated.

Some days after receiving the invitation, Mrs. Bennet and her daughters visited Mrs. Philips in order to discuss their journey, and a rather interesting information that Elizabeth had perhaps recklessly given her mother in her last communication.

"Isn't it a fine prospect for my Kitty, sister dear?" asked Mrs. Bennet enthusiastically.

"Oh yes, though I wonder whether he might favour my own Julianne after all," replied Mrs. Philips thoughtfully.

The sisters gave each other a doubtful look and Mrs. Philips shook her head, while Mrs. Bennet pursed her lips. "My dear niece has to learn to give more attention to the young men. She must flirt more! Didn't I always tell her that, but would she ever listen to me?" she cried in her own melodramatic manner.

"Nay, she does not listen to anyone, except her brother. Now, there is a gentleman with good sense! He is doing so well at Oxford; my husband and I are so proud of him!"

"I think he will marry well, my dear," agreed Mrs. Bennet. "But I'm sure that if my Kitty will play her cards well, we'll be having another couple at the altar by Michaelmas!"

Julianne and Jeremy entered the room just as their aunt had ended her enthusiastic speech and gave each other an amused look, while Kitty looked at them, blushing in mortification. "Who are you marrying Kitty with, Aunt Bennet?" asked Jeremy, after giving her a polite kiss on the cheek.

"Nephew dear, haven't you heard the news? There is going to be an addition to our family party at Pemberley. Mr. Darcy has also invited his uncle and his cousin to visit!"

Julianne gave a little start. "You mean Colonel Fitzwilliam and the Earl of Matlock I guess," she said, her voice a little strained. Her brother noticed her agitation and gave her a questioning look.

"Oh no, Julianne, it's a certain Robert Darcy I'm talking about! It seems that he is younger than Lizzy's husband, a little older than my Kitty! Isn't that Providence?"

Jeremy noticed that his sister looked a little pale, and with a hurried excuse, asked her to follow him out of the room. When they were away from the prying looks of their relatives, safe in the garden, Julianne gave vent to her pent up feelings. "Oh no, he can't be there too! How will I bear it?"

Her brother was sincerely puzzled. "Don't tell me that he didn't write to you to tell you that he was to meet us in Derbyshire!"

"I haven't received a letter from him in these last days, although I am expecting one soon. If I knew I would have never accepted Elizabeth's invitation!" Julianne was almost wailing now.

As if on cue, Lane joined them outside and silently handed Julianne a letter from Robert. She skimmed it quickly to see if there was any confirmation of her fears, and there it was, clear and undeniable.

"Miss Philips, we are to meet again! My father and I are to visit Derbyshire in August and I hope you will allow me to tell you how eager I am to be able to see you once more."

Julianne gave Jeremy a dismayed look. "This does not look good, Jeremy, it does not look good at all!"

***

The journey was long, and almost no conversation was shared by the twins. Jeremy, was too cautious by nature, to share his anticipation and happiness with anyone, but his glee could be seen clearly by any perceptive eye in the grin that grew wider and wider with every mile that brought him nearer to Pemberley. Julianne, however, had no inclination to be perceptive and was in no mood to give anyone but herself any particular attention. Her brother had long since given up trying to understand why after so many weeks and months of correspondence, she would still feel so afraid to meet Robert and had told her so without many minced words.

Julianne herself was at a loss in trying to decipher the confused emotions she felt. The only thing she knew was that she had been absolutely foolish in renewing her acquaintance with the man she had been engaged to, and who had hurt her so much. That was it. The prospect of seeing Robert again, in the place where they had met, loved and left each other, brought back all the pain and anger she had felt for him when they had last spoken to one another. During these months, her affection had never abated, and at times she could hardly keep her feelings from flowing all over the letters she wrote him, and this made it all the more confusing. Can someone love, and yet at the same time be so angry with another person? Would she ever be able to reach a logical, rational conclusion?

****

They arrived at Pemberley in the afternoon, but the hot August sun was far from setting. Elizabeth and her husband ran out to meet them, accompanied by Georgiana, the Bingleys, and Robert and Phillip Darcy, who had arrived the day before. Jeremy went out of the carriage eagerly, and after greeting his hosts politely, turned his attention towards Georgiana. Julianne clambered down more slowly, and forced herself not to look at Robert, though from the corner of her eye she could just see his bright smile faltering into a look of disappointment and incomprehension.

Jeremy kissed Georgiana's hand and held it just a bit longer than was the usual custom of the time. She blushed and exhaled a happy sigh. "Welcome to Pemberley Mr. Philips. I hope you are well?"

Jeremy gave her his best smile. "I never felt better, Miss Darcy, never."

Elizabeth happened to glance at them and saw enough to suspect, and was wise enough to sense that it was not the right time for her husband to suppose such an attachment, so she went up to Jeremy, and tried to break the happy tete a tete. "It's good to have you and Julianne back, Jeremy," she began gaily.

"I agree Lizzy, it's been a long time since we saw you last."

Elizabeth's eyes gave the merest flicker towards her sister in law, and said, "I agree. Maybe too long if I may dare say so."

Darcy was introducing his uncle and cousin to Elizabeth's relatives. Mrs. Bennet seemed to like Robert very much, and wasted not time in pouring Kitty's virtues all over him and his father. Phillip Darcy looked amused, but his real attention was caught by the pretty, silent girl that was introduced to him as Julianne Philips. What really caught his attention was the way she and his son avoided looking at each other, and the pain that he saw in both their eyes. This is not going to be so easy as I thought, he said to himself, and wondered what he could ever do about it.

Robert did not know what to do. He had been so eager to meet Julianne and to show her that nothing had changed and that he still loved her! He had hoped that her eyes, so cold, steely and angry when they had last looked at him, would have held something different, concern, partiality, love maybe? But all he had seen was the same anger, but more pain, in the quick glances she had given him.

Julianne what can I ever do for you to forgive me? Will I ever be able to win you again? I'm sorry Julianne, I'M SORRY! Isn't that clear to you by now?

*****

Julianne was unpacking her trunks, though she would have given anything to be safely packed in a carriage on her way back to Meryton. This had not been a good idea, but she cared enough for Elizabeth and Darcy to try her outmost to be herself. It will be just a few weeks, she kept saying to herself. Just a few weeks, and maybe you'll never see him again!

Why are you not happy with that prospect? I am. Oh I'm sure!

When she finished, she hurried off down the stairs to join the rest of the party, and had almost reached the drawing room before she felt a gentle but firm hand on her arm. She swirled around and found herself staring at the brown eyes that had tormented her dreams the whole winter.

Damn it! Must he always look so good?!

"Julianne, I think we need to talk."

"Good evening Mr. Darcy. I was on my way to join the others, would you care to join me? We will be able to converse there," she answered trying hard to keep her voice from quivering.

"That is not what I mean, as you are well aware! Julianne, what is the matter? I thought we were friends now, that we had put it all behind us!"

"You're right, we are friends, but as far as I know, you do not have anything to put behind you!"

Robert shook his head slowly. "Not again Julianne, do not reject me and my love again," he pleaded softly.

She broke her hold gently and looked away. "You can go in the drawing room if you like, I'll be joining you later."

Robert gave her a long look, but seeing that she was unmovable, he sauntered off, completely defeated. Julianne stared at the door, which he had closed in front of her, and tried to gulp down the threatening tears.

"My son loves you, you know," said a voice behind her, in a very matter-of-fact way.

Julianne turned round to face Phillip Darcy, who had accidentally witnessed the entire scene. "With all due respect, Sir, I do not think that you are totally aware of the circumstances --"

"Oh of course I am aware of them! Robert admitted to me what a total fool he made of himself, and the detestable manner in which in treated you!" He paused when he saw her looking at him defiantly. "But I am also aware of his repentance, and of the serious, mature way in which he dealt with all the blows life tormented him with in the last months. Miss Philips, believe me, my son has changed, and he deserves to be happy, and you do too. Can't you find it in your heart to forgive him?"

Julianne paced the hall nervously. "Mr. Darcy, I forgave your son long ago," she said facing him squarely. "But I can't let go of the pain. I can't forget, I'm sorry, I just cannot! All the time, all I remember is that scene in Lambton, the pain I felt when I found out about his betrayal, and the way in which I found that out!"

Phillip looked at her sadly. "Is it possible that your only recollection of the time you spent with Robert is that incident? How can it be that you cannot remember the happiness you felt a few minutes before that? Are those feelings to be forgotten so easily?"

Julianne was silent for a few minutes then she looked up at him, tears streaming down her cheeks. "I do remember them," she sobbed. "I remember them now."

Phillip Darcy looked up and breathed a silent thank you. At least, he had caught her attention.

***

Julianne feigned a headache and did not join her relatives in the drawing room, but she did come down to dinner some hours later, looking tolerably composed and refreshed. She smiled shyly at Robert and sat down near him, blushing slightly when she saw him returning it with a radiant beam of his own. All the others noticed this exchange, and Elizabeth and her husband shared a secret smile, confident that at last their cousins were on their fair way to find happiness.

Mrs. Bennet however, was not quite so pleased, and took it upon herself to mortify Kitty further by calling upon Robert's attention with anecdotes of her daughter's life. He listened with civil indifference, but Julianne found herself getting angrier and angrier with her aunt and her unveiled attempts at securing a new son-in-law. Jeremy noticed that, much to his amusement, his sister's countenance was heightening in colour, and the vicious way she cut her meat demonstrated her rising temper.

"Mr. Darcy, I believe that Haydon Manor must be a lovely, grand estate, isn't it not?" twittered irrepressible Mrs. Bennet.

"Yes, Ma'am. My father and I are very proud of it."

"What rich balls you must organize there!"

"Not very often, I'm afraid."

"Did I tell you that Kitty loves dancing? She is quite admired for her skill!"

Kitty murmured a reproach while Julianne banged down her cutlery noisily. All the conversation at the table stopped while the other guests watched on with amusement, and some embarrassment from the Bennet daughters.

"Yes, Mrs. Bennet, I believed you mentioned dancing as one of Miss Bennet's talents."

"Then you must certainly organize a ball and dance with my Kitty and --"

"And I should think not!" burst out Julianne as she rose and glared at her aunt. "That is enough Aunt Fanny! Will you stop making a fool of yourself?"

Everybody was staring at her, with forks posed in mid-air. Julianne suddenly recollected herself and blushed furiously in mortification. "Excuse me, I'm sorry," she muttered and ran out of the room.

Jeremy gave his sister a disapproving frown and rose to go after her, but was obstructed by Robert. "Stay where you are Jeremy," he said. "I think now is the time for me to go after her!"


Chapter 19
Robert left the dining room, and for a moment, there was absolute silence. Jeremy was totally mortified with his sister's behaviour, though he really thought that his aunt had surpassed any limit of decency. Mr. Bennet was secretly amused, but had enough good sense not to let it show, at least not in front of a company that might even succeed in making her feel embarrassed. While Kitty was thankful that Robert had left the room in search for her cousin, Mrs., Bennet herself was bitterly disappointed.

"Isn't she a spoilt, rude girl?" she demanded, shaking her head vigorously. "And Mr. Darcy," she continued, addressing Phillip, "what does your son mean by going out after her? That's her game! She just craves for attention!"

Robert's father was grinning from ear to ear, and gave his nephew a small wink. "I know not why he ran off so hurriedly," he lied diplomatically. "Do you know Fitzwilliam?"

"I don't have a clue, Uncle," replied Darcy sardonically.

Elizabeth suddenly gave a small cry, and dropped her fork noisily.

"What is it, dear?" asked her husband, seeing her go pale all of a sudden.

"I had a sudden cramp," she replied feigning a smile. "It's nothing I can assure you."

"Are you sure?" asked Georgiana anxiously.

"Oh quite sure," was Elizabeth's reply, as she bravely sipped at a glass of water.

The baby isn't due for another week. I must have eaten too much that's all!!

**

Robert walked anxiously down the hall and found Mrs. Reynolds looking at the front door, puzzled. "Have you seen Miss Philips?" he asked eagerly.

Mrs. Reynolds turned her bewildered look upon him. "She just raced out of the house, sir. She did seem rather upset about something," she replied worriedly.

Robert yelled his thank you and dashed out of the house. The sun had set a couple of hours before and the violet horizon was giving way to the dark blue of dusk. Although the moon had not risen yet, the bright summer stars reflecting on the small lake and made the grounds seem not too dark; in fact he could easily discern Julianne as she walked quickly towards it.

He followed her slowly, until he saw her stop, and throw a small stone angrily in the water. "Was that directed to your Aunt Bennet?" he quipped from behind her.

Julianne turned round quickly and rewarded his small attempt at levity with a tiny smile. "That was quite a scene in there, wasn't it?" she commented ruefully.

"Quite unexpected," he agreed, then lowered his voice and walked slowly towards her. "But not wholly unwelcome." Julianne flushed and said nothing, but did not withdraw her hand when Robert caught it in his. "Did I deduct some jealousy in your outburst?" he quipped, pleased to be able to communicate a little with her at last.

"Jealousy? Of course not! I just thought that it might have been embarrassing for you to be talked to in that way by a relative of mine," she explained hastily, though rather untruthfully. "After all, if you decide to court Kitty, it shouldn't be the business of anyone!"

"Court Kitty?" he echoed. "Don't be absurd Julianne. I will never court Kitty, or Mary or anyone, [he squeezed her hand gently] while there is you in my heart."

Julianne gaped, and stared at him for some time without saying anything. Robert gulped, afraid that he had committed another faux pas, until she held her stomach with her free hand, and confessed candidly, "oh no. I feel faint!"

They both looked at each other and burst out laughing before finding themselves locked in a tight embrace. Some tears started to flow down her face and Robert offered her his handkerchief.

"No thanks. I have mine," she said referring to a crumpled piece of cloth she held in her hand. "Isn't it strange," she mused, "that almost whenever we are together I am in need of a handkerchief? I already have two of yours. Or had."

"Had? What happened to them?" asked Robert amused.

Julianne gave him a serious look and turned her gaze on the lapels of the casual coat he was wearing. "Unfortunately, they met the same fate as your cravat," she replied in a low voice.

"The fire you mean."

"Exactly."

Painful memories rushed back to them and they sat down slowly by the lake, hands held, but both finding comfort in silence. Finally Robert could not hold himself any longer. "Julianne, we must talk about what happened. We can't keep on ignoring that incident."

Julianne looked at him sadly. "I've been trying to ignore that incident for many months, and I don't think I'll ever will." He realized that he had said an absolute absurdity and chewed his bottom lip in regret. Seeing his discomfort, she decided to go on, and gently put her hand on his cheek to guide his gaze towards her. "During this time, I thought that I could forget what happened by trying to forget you and all there was between us, and in that I failed miserably. Your father made me realize that the only way I can put it behind me is to be with you, and to build new memories for me to dwell on. I know this may sound paradoxical, but I want to try it out," she finished with a smile. "Are you willing to take me with all my tantrums, impulsiveness and my stubbornness?"

Robert kissed her softly and stroked the back of her neck tenderly. "Only if you are willing to take a spoilt, but very repentant brat to be your husband."

Julianne nodded and sobbed happily, as Robert pulled her towards him and kissed her as he had never kissed her before. When they parted, she tucked a few stray hairs self-consciously and gave him a shy smile. "I never want to have any secrets between us, Robert."

"Never."

"Good, because I have a confession to make."

Robert gave her a small frown. "What is it?"

Julianne unfolded the crumpled handkerchief she held in her hand, and showed it to him. "This was supposed to be for you," she said simply.

"For me?" he replied, grinning.

"After destroying those that you had lent me, I was caught by guilt, and I decided to make you one," she explained, rather pleased with herself. "Look, it even has your initials!"

"So it has," he laughed. "But why is it R. P.?"

"Robert, that's not a P.! That's a D.!"

Robert chuckled and gave her a small apologetic hug. "Sorry, but I can see that your embroidering skills have not improved much since January!"

"They never will, dear. You must content yourself with a wife that is a total dunce in sewing," was her cheerful reply.

He looked at the handkerchief and placed it in his pocket. "This will be my most precious treasure," he said not wholly jokingly.

They sat in silence for some more time, happy to be in each other's arms at last. Suddenly Julianne decided to break the silence. "Robert?"

Her fiance was busy nuzzling her neck but he managed a coherent, "Mmmmm?"

"Shouldn't I be your most precious treasure?"

Robert stopped his occupation for a minute. "Julianne."

"Yes?"

"You will stop talking nonsense after we're married, won't you?"

"Of course, dear. But my mother will want to visit quite often, I'm afraid."

Robert let out a small, resigned breath. "Is she as bad as Mrs. Bennet?"

"Worse."

"Oh."

***

They spent a couple of hours talking and planning their future under the moonlight, and finally decided that they had better go inside to break the news to their forgotten relatives. On entering the house, however, they found all the servants bustling about, and there was no sign of the other guests. Mrs. Reynolds walked quickly towards them, issuing orders to any servants that stopped long enough to listen.

"What is happening here?" asked Robert, alarmed.

"It's Mrs. Darcy, sir. She's having her baby," replied the woman breathlessly.

"It can't be!" cried Julianne. "it's still early!"

"The baby doesn't seem to want to wait any longer, Miss. If I were you, I would go and calm the Master down. He seems to be rather÷well÷agitated, " she said ominously.

Julianne and Robert looked at each other and hurried up to the room in which Mrs. Reynolds had told them that the family had assembled. They found Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner trying to comfort Mrs. Bennet, who had chosen just that moment to feel "flutterings" in her stomach, and Mr. Bennet and Bingley trying to do the same for Darcy, who was pacing the room and stopping once in a while to give a murderous look to his mother-in-law. Kitty and Mary stood in a corner, trying to keep themselves occupied and to be as little trouble as possible. Phillip Darcy was grinning by the window, pretending to read a book.

As soon as they entered, Darcy spun round to face them. "And where have you two been?" he demanded.

Bingley mouthed from behind his friend "Do not mind him" and motioned them to humour the man as much as possible. "We were out on a walk," began Julianne.

"Oh that's damn thoughtful of you! My wife is in there having a baby and you go around scampering around the estate!" he cried, rather irrationally.

Julianne was about to retort something but Robert placed a firm hand on her arm to stop her. "I agree cousin, and I apologise," he said diplomatically. "Would you like some coffee or tea?" he asked.

Darcy seemed to have calmed down. "Yes. Yes, thank you Robert."

"Lace it with poison!" whispered Julianne loudly, still miffed at her cousin-in-law's outburst.

Darcy glared at her. "And where the hell is my sister?" he cried.

"We'll go look for her," replied Robert quickly, and grabbing Julianne's hand, he hurried out of the room.

They went down the stairs in silence, wondering where Jeremy and Georgiana might be. As they passed the library, they heard some low whispering, and they opened the door slowly to see if they were in there. As the door opened, Julianne let out a shriek while Robert gaped. Jeremy and Georgiana were standing in front of the low fire, engaged in a chaste kiss.

"Jeremy! Georgiana!" gasped Julianne. "What on earth are you doing?"

The couple, caught in flagrante sprang apart and looked guiltily at the other two.

"Isn't this an interesting way to pass the time?" Julianne exclaimed sarcastically.

Jeremy glared at his sister, but before he could utter a word in his defense, Robert burst into nervous laughter. "And what would Darcy think of this!" he cried. There was silence as that comment sank into them. "Jeremy, you are in for trouble," continued Robert. "Big trouble!"


Chapter 20
The two couples stared at each other as Robert's words sank in. Jeremy looked away, shaking his head resolutely. "There won't be any trouble," he mumbled. "I am going to tell Darcy just what is going on. There won't be any more secrets."

Julianne gave him a long, puzzled look. "Jeremy, could you please tell me how long this has been going on?"

Her brother and Georgiana looked at each other uneasily and sighed. "Since we met in London," he finally confessed.

"All these months?" cried Julianne. "How could you keep it hidden? Jeremy, I'm your sister for crying out loud!"

"Do not take it personally," said Georgiana before Jeremy could retaliate. "No one knows, not even Elizabeth."

"Your brother doesn't know for sure," said Robert wryly.

There was an awkward pause, till Jeremy stood up and walked briskly towards the door. "He won't be kept in the dark any longer! I'll go talk to him this very minute!"

Julianne stopped her brother and warned him about the foul mood their cousin-in-law was in. This was due of course, to his fears and anxiety connected with Elizabeth's labour. Georgiana intervened as well, and the determined young man reluctantly agreed to wait until things had settled down a little. "And Jeremy, remember, it is just a matter of using the right approach!" advised Julianne.

"Right approach?"

"Yes, and I do have something in mind," she replied archly. "As usual."

After a few minutes, they entered together the room where all the family had assembled to wait for baby to be born. There was little change in the behaviour and positions of the people there, except that the sight of Robert and Julianne's held hands brought about a fresh attack of tears from Mrs. Bennet. The happy couple whispered their news to Phillip Darcy, who was overjoyed. He had liked Julianne from their very first meeting, and was glad to see that his son's suffering had come to an end. He gave her an affectionate kiss on the cheek and welcomed her to the family. Mrs. Bennet's whimpers caused Kitty to move away, and she swiftly joined the happy group by the window. She caught her cousin's hands in hers and gave her a sincere smile of congratulations.

"I'm so very happy for you, Julianne," she began rather timidly; she and Julianne had never been close. "Do not think that I had ever any designs on Mr. Darcy, it was all my mother's idea. I hope you realize that."

Her cousin grinned at her. "Of course I realize that, dear Kitty," she said sympathetically. "You must promise me one thing, though."

"What?" asked Kitty bemused.

"When you get to choose your husband, do not EVER let your mother interfere! It's just not worth the whole embarrassment," replied Julianne rather mischievously.

Kitty gave a low chuckle. "I promise," she said squeezing Julianne's hands one last time. As she turned away, however, her smile disappeared. She doubted that she would ever have that sort of dilemma to face.

*******

Some hours later, on the dawn of a typical August day, Benjamin William Darcy was born, bringing with him all the fuss and fanfare that a truly longed for infant could afford. Before he could open his eyes, he found himself in the tender hands of an adoring mamma and in a matter of minutes, he was gawked at by a distinguished, but truly humbled and awed papa. Within a few hours, his round dark eyes had registered the presence of a vast dynasty of aunts, uncles, a rather noisy grandmamma and many other relatives. Young Ben found himself completely unprepared for such a reaction, and alternated his cries with little yawns, that in themselves brought forward proud sighs from both the new parents.

Darcy spent most of the following days in the nursery, not willing to leave Elizabeth's side. He was still completely overwhelmed by the whole experience, and at times could hardly believe that the little, wriggling bundle he held was really his son, his heir, he would think proudly.

A couple of days later, he was trying to lull the child to sleep, having relieved Elizabeth for a few hours to let her get some sleep. There was a gentle knock on the door, and the nurse announced quietly that Mr. Philips wanted to talk to him. Darcy went out and met him in the corridor, thinking it would be just a hurried affair, and carried his son with him.

Jeremy was secretly glad to see Darcy carrying his son, and his sister's words reverberated in his mind.

Just hope that he will be carrying Ben. His hands won't be free then!

He gulped and forced a smile on his face. His initial resolve had melted away with the sight of Georgiana's brother.

"Well, Jeremy, what is it?" asked Darcy amiably.

"Oh, I just came to talk to you about something," he began awkwardly. "Oh! Isn't Ben a cute little thing?"

Cute little thing?

I'm improvising for God's sake!

Darcy gave him a wide smile. "Oh, he is isn't he? And he's dark, just like any respectable Darcy!" Jeremy tried hard not to roll his eyes. "There was only one Darcy who was fair," continued the happy father. "And he was a rascal!"

The younger man was pleased to notice Darcy's good humour. "How did you come up with the name Benjamin?"

The other shrugged. "It was the nearest to Bennet Elizabeth and I could allow. I didn't want my son to have a last name for a first name, if you know what I mean." Darcy grinned again and Jeremy cringed.

Another sickly sweet smile like that and I'll throw him out of the window.

However, he managed to nod his head vigorously. Darcy looked at him curiously and asked, "Wasn't there something you wanted to tell me?"

It's now or never, he thought and after taking a deep breath, he let it all out. "Mr. Darcy, I'd like to marry Georgiana."

For what seemed like eternity, Darcy just stared at him, emotionless. The he opened the nursery door quickly and handed the baby to the bewildered nurse. Without a word, he grabbed Jeremy's arm and led him to his study where he pushed him down firmly into the chair and stood towering over him. "My hands are free," he said tersely. "And now talk!"

Jeremy tried not to let himself be intimidated by the tall form of his cousin-in-law. "You heard me Darcy," he said stiffly. "I am in love with Georgiana, and we have already talked about it. All we need is your blessing."

"Oh so this has been going on for some time, right?" Darcy remarked incensed. "In love! Don't be silly! Georgiana is just a child!"

"Georgiana is nineteen years old! And anyway, we won't get married now, obviously. Years have to pass before I can secure a decent living for ourselves!"

Darcy leant down and looked at him straight in the eyes. "Of that you can rest assured young man. So if you were hoping for my sister's dowry you can just forget it!"

Jeremy stood up angrily. "How dare you say that Darcy! I'm not after Georgiana's money, as you have not so subtly hinted! Why the hell must you be so suspicious about things that concern her?"

Darcy glared at him. "You do not understand. Georgiana has had a very Ò unpleasant experience in her life and --"

"With Mr. Wickham." Darcy looked at Jeremy in surprise, while the other man looked at him triumphantly. "Yes, she told me all about it Darcy. Because, she trusts me."

"Like she trusted Mr. Wickham," the older man snapped in retaliation.

"Oh my God. I can't believe you said that! Lord, Darcy! You are married to my cousin, your cousin is to marry my sister Ò I'm family now!" he cried, very much offended. "How can you compare me with that villain?"

Darcy walked slowly to the window, and turned his back on him. "Tell me Jeremy, what exactly do you want from me? You told me yourself that you are not able to marry Georgiana now."

"Yes, but he will be able to do so in a few years," said a voice from behind him. He turned around and found himself facing his sister. She was not the shivering, scared child he had embraced after a similar meeting with Wickham. She stood straight and determined, like a woman who had found what she wanted, and had no intention of letting it go. "And when that happens," she added sadly, "you will not be able to do anything about it."

Darcy stared at them; his expression changing suddenly from anger to sadness, and Jeremy could not help pitying him. "Darcy, we do not want your money, or your influence for our own purposes. Georgiana and I have talked all about this and I can assure it is not a lark. All we would like to have from you is your support, and your permission to keep on dreaming, and planning a future for ourselves."

Georgiana looked earnestly at her brother, suddenly sorry for her outburst. She would never be capable of disappointing him, but he had to realize that the time for her to drift away from him was approaching. Darcy must have been thinking much about the same thing because he turned to Jeremy and asked him rather gently to leave him for a few minutes with his sister.

Some minutes later, Georgiana came out of the study and buried herself in the expectant arms of her beau. "What did he tell you?" he asked anxiously.

Georgiana sobbed quietly and gave him a kiss before giving him a watery smile. "He said that he will help us in any way possible, and that if we ever meet in London by chance, he will discreetly look in another direction."

Jeremy embraced her again and glanced at Darcy, who was had quietly come out of the room and who stood watching them sadly. "Thank you," he mouthed gratefully, while the other gave him a noncommittal look and hurried off.

The only comfort that Fitzwilliam Darcy could ever find was in the warm embrace of his wife. Seeing that his young son had taken his place, -- for this time only, his father thought--as Elizabeth nursed him, he contented himself by sitting on the bed beside her, and putting his arm around her bonny form.

"What is it my dear?" asked Elizabeth softly, after giving him a welcoming kiss.

"What is it with your family, Elizabeth?" asked her husband tersely. "I love you, Robert loves your cousin, and my sister seems to have made up her mind to love your other cousin! What is it that makes your family bewitch mine?"

Elizabeth smiled, pleased that Jeremy had finally come clean with her husband. "Fitzwilliam, love, maybe the problem is with your family, not mine. It's you who can't resist us!" Darcy looked so forlorn that she nestled closer to him, an action that was made difficult by the presence of a suckling infant. "Georgiana will soon be grown enough to leave this nest, Fitzwilliam, and you have to get used to it," she said wisely. "You seem to have forgotten, however, that you have a little boy here for you to take care of," she added.

Darcy touched his son's face gently, and looked at him lovingly, before turning his adoring gaze to his wife. "You know what Mrs. Darcy?"

"What Mr. Darcy?"

"You managed to console me."


Chapter 21
Two months had passed since Ben's birth, and the Bennets, Julianne, Robert and Phillip Darcy left Derbyshire for Hertfordshire. Julianne and Robert had sent a letter to Mr. and Mrs. Philips to ask for their consent and blessing, and much to their chagrin, on their arrival in Meryton, they were greeted by the happy villagers who were actually quoting some parts of their missives. Mrs. Philips was overwhelmed with happiness and pride for the coming nuptials of her "dear dear daughter" and pure enthusiasm flourished among the neighbours, who had not prepared for such a wedding since the bride's cousin had married the groom's kinsman.

Mrs. Bennet was still not quite reconciled to the fact that the young Darcy had preferred her niece to her own dear Kitty, and was always perfectly civil to Robert and his father. Her sister chose to use the same tactics and poured upon them the most charming of courtesies. So what with the expectation of his wedding and the nearness of his fiancee, and the attention bestowed by her mother and aunt, it could be said that Robert was having a very jolly time in Meryton.

After some weeks, however, he had to leave for Haydon to settle some pressing business with his tenants. His father usually took care of that responsibility, but he had not been quite up to undertaking such a long journey to and from Hertfordshire, and had opted to lodge in a comfortable inn until after the wedding, and then go back to the estate and welcome the newlyweds after the honeymoon.

The evening before the wedding, the Darcys were spending a quiet evening at the Philips' house. Robert's father was being entertained by Mrs. Philips, while her husband amiably contributed to the conversation on the rare occasions when he could get a word in. Robert and Julianne sat at the piano, the only place in the room where they could spend some time in limited privacy. Julianne was trying hard to play some easy tune on the instrument, though her musical prowess was not really laudable. Try as she might, she could never manage to create some sort of harmony between her fingers and the white keys of the pianoforte. Her fiance was not really very keen on music either, except to dance to its rhythm, and it was known among his acquaintances, that he had managed to sleep throughout the last two acts of the first opera he had ever gone to see.

"The people in Meryton thought that you had deserted me when they did not see you coming in the last days," Julianne was saying, with a small pout.

Robert grinned. "Run off and desert you?" he scoffed. "I wouldn't dare to anger my father in that way!"

Julianne beamed, happy that Phillip Darcy held her in such high esteem. "Really?" she asked happily.

"Why yes, he really thinks your mother is charming, and would never forgive me for missing the opportunity of being her son-in-law," he replied in mock seriousness.

His fiancee's eyebrows shot up in disbelief. "What?"

Robert lowered his voice and leaned towards her as if disclosing a big secret. "He told me so himself," he whispered, unable to control his mirth.

Julianne laughed and muttered "Unbelievable" but then wisely changed the subject. "Thank you for agreeing to go to Scotland after the wedding," she said shyly. "I really appreciate it. I'll be happy to see Aunt Betsy again."

"Dear Aunt Betsy!" replied Robert. "I've heard so much about her and how she brought you up that I'm really eager to meet her! I have to tell her quite a few things about this woman I'm marrying," he added jokingly.

Seeing his father stand up to take their leave, Robert caught Julianne's hand and turned it round so that he could kiss her palm. She left her hand for a minute on his cheek and sighed happily in anticipation of the following day. Robert bent down to kiss her cheeks chastely before he left, but also managed to whisper something in her ear. "Sleep well tonight dearest," he said. "I doubt you will get much of it tomorrow!"

Julianne blushed bright red and gave him a playful slap on his arm. "Mr. Darcy, I am seriously questioning my motives for marrying you!"

"The answer to that is simple my love," he quipped. "I am the only one that can make you laugh, and besides I'm almost unbearably handsome!"

She shook her head and looked at him in sympathy. "Hang on to that delusion my dear boy," she teased. "At least till I'm am there to destroy it!" Robert turned around to give her a serious look that went for once above all their playful bantering. That look showed her that he loved her deeply, and made her wonder how she could have ever conceived a life without him.

****

Meanwhile at Longbourn...

"Fitzwilliam, remind me to thank Kitty when we go back into the house," said Elizabeth softly as she snuggled deeply into her husbands strong arms. She and Darcy were sitting leisurely on a bench in what Lady Catherine had once dubbed as "some sort of wilderness". They had left Ben in the care of his doting, but capable aunt and had reserved a whole hour to themselves, something that had happened quite rarely since the birth of their son.

"This was a wonderful idea of yours, Elizabeth," he murmured as he kissed his wife deeply. "It's been a long time since we spent time together alone. I was quite beginning to forget what it felt like!"

Elizabeth frowned a little. "It's all my fault, I think," she began. "But at times I am so tired that I just drop off to sleep in the middle of a sentence! It's not that I don't want to spend time with you and tell you things any longer, but it is just that sometimes I do not have the strength to do so!"

"Don't blame yourself, my love," Darcy replied gently. "Taking care of an infant is exhausting, and I think it's about time that I start taking a more active part in helping you out," he added sheepishly. Fitzwilliam Darcy's idea of taking care of an infant was to lay him on the soft carpet of the nursery and letting him do whatever he pleases.

"I do hope that he is not giving Kitty any trouble."

"Our Benjamin could never give anyone trouble!" replied her husband dismissively. "He is much to well brought up to do so!"

Elizabeth rolled her eyes. When their son was involved, Darcy could never be impartial. "Dearest, Ben is two months old. No one is well brought up at that age!" There was a pause as Darcy shrugged disbelievingly, and she could not resist the temptation to tease him. "Fitzwilliam, when Ben gets into trouble for the first time and completely devastates you with his behaviour, call me. I want to be there to witness it!"

Her husband had to laugh at that one. "Mrs. Darcy, I think that you have quite a misconception of the "in joy and sorrow" part of our marriage vows," he replied grinning.

Elizabeth's eyes turned wistful as she averted her gaze to the sky above. "Do you remember the night before our wedding?" she asked. "I remember it was as clear and lit as tonight, and we had passed most of it right here on this bench."

Darcy pulled her close and kissed her lovingly. "Of course I remember," he replied softly.

"That night I had thought that I could never love you more than I did at the time," said Elizabeth, looking straight into his eyes. "But I was so wrong. I love you more than I could have ever thought possible."

Darcy was touched. Although Elizabeth showed her love and respect for him in many ways, it was not very often that she would confess it so openly. He held her close to him and wondered what ever he had done in his life to be rewarded with such a treasure that was his wife.

***

Georgiana Darcy smiled at her reflection happily as she once again held up her hand to admire the ring that Jeremy had given her that morning. It was his first gift and, although she had to admit that it was very simple in comparison to the rings people like Caroline Bingley and other "important" people in society wore, she loved it most of all her other jewels, because its simplicity reminded her of the openness and simplicity of the character of the young man she so loved.

The day that they had passed together had been unforgettable. While they were careful to appear as common acquaintances to the people in Meryton, in their long walks in the woods they expressed their feelings for each other in ways that made her blush. The warmth in her face was not caused by shame however, because she could never be ashamed of her love for young Jeremy Philips, but by happiness and the anticipation of a shared life in a future that was not too far away.

*****

Kitty handed the sleepy infant in the hands of his father who happily expressed his gratitude for having taken care of him for the past hours.

"It's been a pleasure, Mr. Darcy," she replied. "Ben was no trouble at all."

Darcy turned to his wife and gave her a triumphant grin. "You see?" he asked rhetorically.

Elizabeth grinned at her sister before saying good night. Kitty caught the look that passed between her and her husband before they turned to walk hand in hand to their chamber. She felt a lump in her throat as she looked at their happy, undisguised look of love. She never thought that such a happy marriage could exist, and sadly wondered if she could ever find such happiness herself.

****

"Julianne? Are you awake?"

"Of course Jeremy, come in," replied his sister behind the closed door.

Jeremy entered his sister's room cautiously and found her looking at her wedding dress critically, while at the same time helping herself to a plateful of fruitcake. "So sister, are you excited?" he asked cheerfully.

"Is 'terrified' synonymous?"

"Yes," her brother laughed. "So what on earth are you looking at?"

"I don't know Jeremy. It suddenly seems as if my wedding dress has shrunk! I'm seriously wondering if it will fit tomorrow!" cried Julianne rather irrationally.

"Well for one thing, stop eating that cake," replied Jeremy slyly, and took a big slice from under her nose, ignoring her glare. "And stop worrying! Everything will go well!"

"I hope so," she replied wearily. "Oh by the way, has Gordon arrived yet in Meryton?" She was referring to their long-term friend from Scotland. "He did promise me that he would be there!"

"Yes of course, I met him in Meryton this morning. He gave you his love," Jeremy informed.

"Is he still infatuated with Isabella Martin?" asked Julianne casually.

"Oh no. The lady informed him of her engagement just some weeks ago. The poor fellow is heartbroken!"

His sister laughed. It was cruel, but the picture of carefree, jolly Gordon MacKay as "heartbroken" was too funny. And anyway, she did have a little plan of her own. "I'm sure he'll find a nice girl in Meryton to cheer him up," she said.

"Anyone in mind?" asked Jeremy suspiciously.

"Of course not," was the quick reply.

Her brother grinned. "I don't believe you, but I'm too tired to argue. You know, I hope that your future children will torment you in the same way when they grow up!"

Julianne gave him a careless toss of the head. "I'm not even thinking about becoming a parent at the moment!" she cried.

"Well, you may not, but from the way Robert looks at you, I think becoming a parent, or at least the process of what leads to it, is uppermost in his mind," Jeremy teased maliciously.

Julianne threw him a pillow. "Oh you rogue! Don't men ever think of anything else?"

He grinned sheepishly. "Of course they do," he replied. "Just not in the presence of their fiancees!"

After some time, Jeremy left the room and Julianne went up to the window, blowing a kiss to the lit up room that hosted Robert. She could just glimpse it at the end of the street, and dreamily wondered what he was doing.

*****

Phillip entered the room of his son, and found him intent in writing some letters. Looking over his shoulder, he found out that they were addressed to the steward at Haydon, dealing with business that was usually his own. "Robert, you shouldn't be doing my work on the eve of your wedding," he said softly.

Robert smiled at him. "It is no trouble Father," he replied. "And anyway, they have to be done sometime."

"I'm sorry to be giving you so much trouble, son." Phillip said suddenly.

Robert stood up and looked at him incredulously. "Trouble? Dad what are you saying? You are the most considerate person there is! I know that you are not feeling well, I'm not so dumb, but yet you still hide your pain behind that jolly facade you created. You have done all that was in your power to make this days the happiest of my life, and for that I'll never be able to thank you properly."

Phillip hugged his son tightly, hardly able to overcome to tears that threatened to flow from his eyes. Robert looked seriously at him. "Father, if you want me and Julianne to come straight home after the wedding, we will do so. I'm sure she will understand."

"No, Robert. You and your wife must spend some time on your own, even if there will be an Aunt Betsy in the background," he said, reverting to his usual humour. "Do not worry. Come hell and high-water, I will be there to welcome you to Haydon!"

After his father left the room, Robert found some solace in looking out of the window and was surprised to see that there was a light in Julianne's room. He prayed the Lord to help him in the new life he was creating for himself and to give courage to his father till the very end. Then Robert looked at the moon, and breathed a thank you, to Whoever it was that resided in the sky, for giving him a chance to forge a happy future with a wife that he would love, hold and cherish for the rest of his life.


Chapter 22 (conclusion)
Julianne looked at herself incredulously as her young maid covered her hair with the lace veil her mother had given her the day before. Mrs. Philips had told her that it was the veil that she herself had used and although Julianne had never been overly proud of her family name, she felt satisfied and strangely fulfilled when she saw it on herself. The sardonic part of her character, however, could not be stifled even on such an important day and she gave a wry smile, and hoped that using her mother's veil would not mean having her parents' marriage.

However, Julianne felt as if nothing could ever ruin this happy day for her. She knew she was happy, though she also felt frightened and confused. This was her last hour as Miss Julianne Philips, before resigning her name and fortune to become Mrs. Robert Darcy. She stared at her reflection again thoughtfully, and wondered whether she was really the right person for Robert, whether she was absolutely capable of shouldering the responsibilities of a wife, a Mistress of an estate, and maybe some time even those of motherhood. At that moment, she realized what Jane and Elizabeth, and what many other brides-to-be, felt before starting a new life, and prayed silently that she would fulfill everyone's expectations of her.

Her musing was interrupted by a knock on the door. "Who is it?" She asked.

"It's Jeremy, can I come in?"

"No! You can't see me in my wedding gown!" was her quick reply.

"I'm the brother, not the groom!" replied Jeremy. "That rule doesn't apply to me!" He rolled his eyes from behind the closed door at his sister's reply.

"Well! I don't want you to describe it to Robert either, so there!"

Her brother finally gave in. "Whatever you want, Ju," he sighed. "But I've got a surprise for you!"

The door opened and Elizabeth and Jane entered, going straight to hug their favourite cousin. Julianne could hardly believe her eyes when she saw the subjects of her musing standing right there in front of her. She felt as if she never needed them more! "Jane! Elizabeth!" she cried. "What are you doing here? I thought you were at Longbourn!"

Elizabeth grinned when she saw the girl's happy face. "Well, we finished our preparations very early, and we decided to use the carriage and visit a very nervous bride-to-be," she explained.

"But what about your husbands? And Ben?" asked Julianne.

"Well, Ben is in the care of a very reliable nanny," replied Elizabeth. "And our husbands are to meet us at the church."

"We knew that at this time you might have needed someone to talk to," added Jane. "Lizzy and I had each other for comfort while you have only a bachelor brother to turn to."

The ladies sat down on Julianne's bed and Elizabeth clasped her cousin's hands tightly. "So, tell me dear, how are you feeling?"

Julianne felt a lump in her throat and swallowed it down painfully before she replied. "I'm scared," she said softly. "Terrified."

Jane smiled kindly at her. "It's normal to feel strange and confused before one's wedding," she said. "But I'm sure that you and Robert are doing the right thing."

Elizabeth stroked Julianne's cheek gently. "Ju, you and Robert passed through so much, and your love has withstood it all! You shouldn't be too afraid of what will happen in the future. You will grow up together, and learn through mistakes and incomprehension," she said wisely. "There will be times that you will disagree with what your husband says and wants, and he will do the same. However, never stop respecting or loving him Julianne, and in this way you'll be sure that he will always respect and cherish you."

Her cousin nodded in understanding before embracing them both tightly. "I will miss you both so much!" she sobbed. "Please do come and visit me often in the North," she pleaded.

"Of course we will, Julianne," said Jane. "We will always be there when you need us."

*******

On the way to the church in the Bennet carriage, Jane noticed that her sister looked rather forlorn and subdued. "What is it Lizzy?" she asked cautiously.

Elizabeth shook her head slowly. "It's nothing to be concerned about, Jane," she replied dismissively.

"Tell me, Lizzy," Jane prodded gently. "Is it something to do with Julianne and her fiance?"

Elizabeth sighed loudly and looked rather sadly at her sister. "I'm rather scared for her, Jane," she finally admitted. "The first years of marriage are never easy, and Julianne will find herself having to adapt to a completely new style of life."

"But that happens to every bride," replied Jane. "We've passed through that and I must say that we have both succeeded well. What is it that is really troubling you, Elizabeth?"

"In these last days, I noticed that Robert's father is not really looking very well," she began. "Fitzwilliam and I are very concerned about him, and of course, so is Robert. I fear that he won't be with us for long, and I dread to think what the young newly-weds will have to face on his death." Jane didn't answer and Elizabeth continued. "Robert will have to face his grief, while Julianne will have the arduous task of comforting him. What I'm really afraid of is that our cousin will have to pour comfort on a stubborn young man who will not accept it."

"But Lizzy," her sister finally said. "Why do you think it's going to be so hard? Although Robert will obviously feel the loss of his father, he will also have a future with Julianne to look forward to. I prefer to look at the other perspective of this situation, and I am absolutely certain that more than dividing them, Phillip Darcy's death will unite Julianne and Robert all the more."

Elizabeth smiled. "Oh Jane, your perspective of life is so much better than mine," she admitted. "I just hope that it is also more realistic!"

****

Gordon MacKay sat down quickly on the pew next to Mrs. Philips. She knew that he was a friend of the twins and gave him a wide smile. His handsome features broke into a grin, not only in answer to the greeting, but also because he was remembering the conversation he just had had with the bride. If it weren't her wedding day, he wouldn't have minded giving Julianne a good-natured shake. Trust her to try and set him up with a girl even on such an important occasion for her! He had absolutely no intention to entertain this Kitty or Catherine or whatever her name is just because Isabella Martin got engaged!

His large blue eyes skimmed the church superficially, until they came to rest on a pretty young lady sitting in the pew on the opposite side of the church. She was sitting next to a rather sour-looking plain girl, and from the very slight resemblance he guessed that they might be sisters. Who was she? Probably Jeremy would know her, and he was determined to ask him for an introduction immediately after the ceremony. At the moment, he satisfied himself by bestowing upon her a large, friendly grin.

Kitty caught the handsome young man smiling at her and blushed, before rewarding him with a shy, tentative smile of her own. Was he the friend of her cousins from Scotland? She immediately made up her mind to ask Jeremy about him as soon as she got the chance.

There was no man prouder than Jeremy Philips as he saw his sister solemnly exchanging vows with the equally serious young man standing in front of her. He remembered in a flash all the happy days they had spent together, their pranks and their frequent quarrels, as well as the times when his twin sister would weep bitter tears on his shoulder. He could hardly believe that his careless, scatterbrained sister was this same beautiful, confident young woman that had just become the consort of the fine, upstanding Robert Darcy. "I hope you have found your happiness, dear sister" he breathed silently, and suddenly felt a hand taking hold of his own gently. He turned his head slowly and found himself staring at the lovely eyes of Georgiana Darcy. They were brimming with tears, and Jeremy realized that his beloved had read right through him. "She is happy now, Jeremy," she whispered softly in comfort. "And so will we be, when our turn comes," she added, while giving his hand a loving squeeze.

"I can't wait Georgiana," he whispered softly. "I can't wait."

Phillip looked at his son proudly. Young Robert had grown so much; he was a fine gentleman now, not only wealthy in power and but also in sense, because he had chosen an equally intelligent, emotional and beautiful lady to share his responsibilities with. They were both very young, of course, and equally stubborn and hard-headed, but they had married for love, just as he had done many years before and thus he was sure that in time they will be able to knock the sharp corners off their personalities and blend them together through compromise and understanding. He looked closely at Julianne's happy face and smiled. She was such a strong girl, and when he was ... well he was sure that she would be able to take care of his son and help him out of his grief.

The ceremony ended and Robert Darcy and Julianne Philips were finally declared man and wife. A healthy friendship had turned into something much more substantial and the negative experiences that had separated them for many months had helped them grow, and had strengthened their determination to spend the rest of their life together. Fitzwilliam and Elizabeth Darcy looked at the happy couple as they left in their carriage, both reliving their own wedding day two years before. Darcy was happy for his cousin, and when he looked at Georgiana, he also realized that very soon, he would have to attend another wedding that would have been partly brought about by him and his wife.

He said so to Elizabeth as they walked towards their carriage. "Are you aware Elizabeth, that if we had not got married, none of this would have taken place?" he remarked, grinning good-naturedly.

Elizabeth could not help being caught by her husband's enthusiasm. "Well, my dear, it must be said that our union was not only advantageous for us, but also for many other members of our family," she remarked happily.

Darcy smiled. 'Except for Lady Catherine," he mused.

His wife nodded unashamedly. "Except for Lady Catherine," she echoed determinedly. With that, they both turned to catch a last glimpse of the carriage that was taking Robert and Julianne Darcy to the first stop of their long trip together.

THE END.

Well, That's it! I hope you like it!

When I started Family Affairs on a rough piece of paper in class some months ago, I would have never thought that it would have been so wonderful writing it! I really enjoyed posting it chapter by chapter on the BoI and especially reading all your encouraging comments and suggestions. Thank you all!

I left the story open ended in some ways because I do have a sequel in mind, but more than anything it is just an idea, nothing definite...till now!

I would also like to thank Carolyn for managing the BoI board so well and to all the "founders" of RoP for giving me, and all the amateur writers around, this wonderful opportunity. Without this site I would have never realized how great writing actually is. To end with (this is getting rather long) I think I also have to thank Jane Austen for giving us such amazing characters to muse and write about!

Grazzi hafna! (thank you in Maltese :P)

Daniela Grech


© 1999 Copyright held by author

      