TITLE:Beneath the Greenwood Trees
AUTHOR: ElaineL and Lou
DATE: 1998

 Chapter 1 Story Note: Children's ballad verses taken from The Robin Hood Project at the University of Rochester and various translations. The title is a reference to a passage of the play "The Foresters: Robin Hood and Maid Marian," by Alfred, Lord Tennyson.   The attic of Pemberley house was larger than in most homes. It had somewhat of a musty smell although it looked clean enough. Trunks were stored everywhere in it, concealing treasures that had been lost from another time of the house's grand past. Elizabeth Darcy had let herself through the door by using the key she had found in the bureau drawer in her bed chambers. She had gone around to every room, trying the locks, until she had discovered that the key fit into the lock of the attic door.  A small stream of light shown through the small windows, yet there was enough light to see. Given Elizabeth's curious nature, she decided there would be no harm in opening a trunk or two and perusing their contents. Perhaps the treasures would provide her with some insight as to her husband's family and his childhood. She had always been curious to know what he had been like and how he had lived with his family when he was a youngster. He had admitted to her that he had been tall and lanky, which was evident from the portrait of himself and his mother hanging in the library, which had been painted during the early summer of his eleventh year.  Darcy had always been oddly quiet on other aspects of his youth. Elizabeth knew he had been left with the responsibility of an estate and a young girl to raise, as well as the loneliness of being a young man without the benefit of parents. She had never pressed him much to tell her of his childhood, but now she was more curious than she had ever been.  Elizabeth unfastened the latch on one of the trunks and opened the lid. It contained old gowns, which perhaps had once belonged to Darcy's mother. Elizabeth pulled out one and held it up to herself. Even in its wrinkled state it was three or four inches taller than would have fit her own frame. She raised an eyebrow in wonder that Darcy had grown to be so tall. She closed the trunk and went on to another which was tucked back in a corner with a pile of blankets and tarps on it. She pulled off the dusty cloths and opened the lid.  To her delight she found it to contain some toys which a young boy would have played with. There was an exquisite wooden horse and carriage, with working wheels, and she set it on the floor and pushed it around. She again peered into the trunk and saw a small leather ball, a tin whistle and several small quills and a leather bag. There were some clothes folded at the bottom and she reached in and pulled out a pair of small shoes, a little waistcoat and breeches. She laughed at how small they were and shook her head in disbelief that they would have ever fit her husband.  She noticed something underneath the clothing and she reached in and pulled it out. It was a crudely carved piece of wood resembling a sword. The initials FD were carved into its handle. She held it in front of her and pretended to wield it in mock battle. Elizabeth was sure Darcy would be able to tell her of it, and she hastily returned the other items back into their hidden sanctuary and closed the lid.  ***************  After supper Elizabeth made haste to the library and eagerly sat in the chair next to the one Darcy always occupied to read his newspaper in the evenings. Her eyes followed her husband as he went to the desk and picked up the gazette, then walked over to his chair, while skimming the articles on the front page. He stood in front of his chair, turned around and sat down, still engrossed in his reading.  In a flurry of arms, legs and newspaper, Darcy launched out of the chair, feeling something foreign underneath him. He quickly turned around to look, and Elizabeth tried her best not to laugh out loud. His facial features changed as he picked up the toy sword from his chair and held it in front of him.  "Where did this come from?" he asked incredulously.  Elizabeth lovingly smiled up at Darcy and giggled at the utter look of surprise on his face. "I went to the attic today and I found it in an old trunk."  "What were you doing in the attic, Elizabeth?" Darcy chided.  Elizabeth teasingly smiled, "Searching for clues of your youth!"  He looked over at her, his eyes reflecting his playful disapprobation. "You know what I mean. You could fall and hurt yourself up there, and what about the stairs?"  Elizabeth sighed at her husband's constant guard of her, "Fitzwilliam, I am expecting a child. I am not unable to climb a few stairs! Besides, my husband refuses to allow me to do anything for myself, and I am oh so very bored!"  Darcy sat back down in his chair and grinned in a boyish manner, "I thought it had been lost!" He looked over at Elizabeth, the grin still on his face. "It disappeared the summer that my aunt and uncle stayed at Pemberley with my cousins, Edward and Richard. I accused Edward of taking it and burying it...in payback for all the pranks Richard and I played on him that summer." Darcy took a swipe through the air with the toy weapon, "Strange, I remember it as being larger though."  "Pray, Fitzwilliam. I want to hear of it," she pleaded him.  Darcy's grin turned into a concerned and loving smile, "If you promise me you will not go poking around the attic any more?"  Elizabeth nodded, for she knew he was quite right. She had encountered some difficulty maneuvering up and down the steps. Her own adventures would have to wait until after this baby was born. For now, she would be very contented to listen to Darcy's stories of his youth. She sat back in her chair and placed her feet up on the stool, trying to find a comfortable position.  "Who did you pretend to be, Fitzwilliam? Were you a knight...a defender of truth, justice and distressed damsels?" Elizabeth eagerly looked to him for an answer. "Or were you on a quest for the King?"  "No," he shook his head calmly. "I fancied myself as Robin of Loxley."  "Robin Hood!" she exclaimed. "You pretended to be a thief? You who are a man of the establishment!"  "Elizabeth, the Earl of Huntingdon, or Robin Hood as he is commonly known, was defending what he believed was right in retaliation for the wrong done to him, and to others." Darcy smiled when he thought of it. "There are some ruins not far to the north of here. We would run down to them and spend our days pretending to defend it from the evil Sheriff of Nottingham."  Elizabeth listened to her husband as he sat comfortably in his chair and began to recite a child's ballad.  "Now bold Robin Hood to the north would go,  With valour and mickle might,  With sword by his side, which oft had been try'd,  To fight and recover his right."   
		 Chapter 2 "Who goes there?" a dark-haired boy called down from atop the rubble.  "'Tis I, Will Scarlet! I have come to pursue Robin the Hood!" a fairer-haired boy yelled up.  The dark-haired boy jumped down from his perch atop an old pile of masonry rock, wielding a carved toy sword, "No one sees Robin the Hood!"  The other boy put his hands on his hips, and gave a look of defeat. "How are we to play if no one can see you, Wills?"  "Of course you can see me, Richard," the dark-haired boy sighed. "You are suppose to fight me for the right to join the merry men!"  Young Richard Fitzwilliam unsheathed his sword and pointed it at Master Fitzwilliam Darcy. "Very well, you...who ever you are. I shall not leave until I have bested you and have earned the right to live amongst you!"  The two boys pushed and shoved, and brandished their swords against the other. The summer day was fine and the sun shone down on the mock battle scene, as the boys playfully fought one another until they could barely stand up from exhaustion.  Another voice came from behind them, "You there! You scurrilous duo. Prepare to meet your doom!"  The two boys stared wide-eyed at the intruder, then looked at each other with broad grins. Yelling at the tops of their voices they charged the taller boy, who had a toy sword in each hand and an equally wicked grin upon his face.  After battling for some time, young Richard charged the tall boy and stuck him in the ribs with the blunt point of his sword. "I have maimed you. You lecherous cur!"  "Nay, nay, you did not injure me at all."  "I say, Edward, he did so!" young Darcy complained.  "Oh, very well," Edward huffed, then fell on the ground and rolled around, writhing in mock agony for some minutes.  "Edward!" Richard yelled. "How long does it take someone to perish for goodness sake?"  Edward stood up and looked down on his brother, "As long as I say it does!"  Richard stood his ground to his older brother, "You are not playing fair, you big fool!"  "Fool? Another thing, I am becoming tired of always having to play the evil sheriff. Why do you not do it for a while, or are you afraid of being pummeled, you insignificant sprat!"  "This is getting very tiresome!" Young Darcy stomped over and stood in between his two cousins. "Do you two fight like this all the time?"  Richard took his sword and sheathed it, then turned around to stomp back over to the ruins and sit down, "Only when we are breathing," he muttered.  "Well stop it or I shall tell your father you have been fighting!" Young Darcy threatened.  There was no worse crime to be committed by young boys, than being caught fighting amongst each other. In their father's eyes it was a punishable offense and simply was not tolerated. The three cousins sat atop the pile of stone quietly for a while, contemplating how they would draw to see who would have to be the villain.  "Hallo there!"  The three boys turned their heads in unison in the direction of the uninvited voice. A tall boy trudged up the path with a smaller boy, and the two came to a standstill looking up at the cousins.  "It is George Wickham," Darcy whispered to his cousins. "He is the son of the man who was my father's steward."  "I do not care who he is, as long as he is willing to be the villain." Edward jumped down from his perch atop the ruins and stood before young Wickham. "Do you want to join in?"  "Depends. What is it that you do?"  Young Darcy climbed down from the rubble followed by Richard. "We are in need of a Sheriff of Nottingham to battle our trio of merry men." Darcy said.  Young Wickham smiled broadly, "Indeed. If you need a sheriff, I am your man."  "You there," Darcy said to the other boy. "You can be Sir Guy of Gisborne."  The other boy nodded enthusiastically. "What shall we do for weapons?" he asked.  "Here, I shall loan you some of mine," young Richard threw the boys a few of his vast arsenal.  Darcy laid out the scene, "These ruins are your battlement, and you must come find us in the forest. 'Tis ordered by the King."  The cousins ran off into a stand of trees and waited for their adversaries to begin their search. Darcy and Richard climbed up into two of the trees, then practiced their bird calls, just in case secret communications would be needed.  "Shhh, you two are going to give away our positions," Edward called up to them in a hush. "Besides, you sound like lovesick pigeons!"  Edward ducked as a handful of last year's walnut crop came hurling out of the tree and landed all around him. Darcy sat in the tree and eagerly awaited the arrival of Wickham, or rather the Sheriff of Nottingham. He had a few scores to settle with the boy, for it seemed that young Wickham was always getting Darcy into trouble with Darcy's father.  Mr. Darcy took a liking to the son of his steward and in young Wickham's easy manners and deportment. Mr. Darcy had also taken on the responsibilities of benefactor to young Wickham that Spring, when Wickham's father had passed away. Young Darcy however, had learned not to trust the steward's son about as far as he could throw him. There had been a few times during play that young Wickham had led Darcy down a crooked path, only to deny it in the end, leaving young Darcy to take the blame and face his own father's disapprobation. As far as Master Darcy was concerned, it would be a pleasure to best the blackguard in battle.  While waiting, Darcy began to recite to himself one of the old ballads that his father had taught him. He loved to sit in the library in the evenings, listening to his father tell him stories of history and legend of long ago.  "Here is one of us for Will Scarlett,  And another for Little John,  And I my self for Robin Hood,  Because he is stout and strong."  So they fell to it hard and sore;  It was on a midsummers day;  From eight a clock till two and past,  They all shewed gallant play.  Before long the enemy was in sight and the boys sprang down from the trees to defend their territory. It was all-out war for onwards of fifteen minutes. The odds were definitely in the merry men's favor, since they outnumbered the villains three to two. They were also fortunate, in this case, to have Edward on their side. He was a boy of fifteen, very tall and broad for his age. What he lacked in wit, he made up for in brawn, which was to his advantage, especially when it came to intimidating his younger brother and cousin.  He was no match for Richard and Darcy though when it came to imagination and sagacity. He had learned to rue the times that they were all together, for it was known to happen that he would find creatures in his bed or wake up in the morning to find that every pair of shoes he owned had been tied together and hung outside his window. All in all, he took their teasing with a relatively good nature and was even known to defend the younger boys on occasion.  When the battle had been waged and it was determined to be a victory on the side of truth and justice, the boys rested together beneath the trees.  Wickham grinned in the direction of young Darcy, "I heard your father say that you were to go to the assembly in Lambton tonight."  Darcy grimaced, "Good God, not an assembly!"  "What is wrong with an assembly, Wills?" Edward asked.  "You have to dance!" Darcy rolled his eyes in disgust. "I have no stomach for it at all. I would rather drink a bottle of castor oil, than dance."  "You would have to dance if you drank a bottle of castor oil!" Richard laughed at his cousin, along with the other boys. Darcy frowned as he realized his abhorrence for just such occasions.  "Are there many pretty girls in town?" Edward inquired of Wickham, unaware of what a reliable source young Wickham was on that subject.  "Quite a few, all eager to dance, and occasionally bestow on their partners an obliging kiss," Wickham ventured.  The rest of the boys looked like a bevy of owls as their eyes widened at the last of Wickham's comments. Edward and Richard grinned at each other, as Darcy simply groaned at the thought of having to tolerate being slobbered upon by some nonsensical female.  "I suppose it is our duty to dance with them then," Edward replied. "I would hate to disappoint them." He got up from his place under the tree and proceeded to walk back to the house. Wickham and his friend left also, leaving Darcy and Richard under the trees.  "What do they see in them?" Darcy sighed.  "In who? Girls?" Richard asked. "I suppose they are wanting to marry one day."  "Hmm," snarled Darcy. "I shall not marry a girl, unless I am sure she can arm wrestle."  "What has that got to do with it?" Richard guffawed.  Darcy stood up and looked towards Pemberley house, "What else would a chap do for amusement?"  
		 Chapter 3 Elizabeth laughed as she shifted positions in her chair. "Well my dear, you have not yet asked me to arm wrestle?"  Darcy cleared his throat, "No, indeed." He noticed his wife's discomfort. "If you are ailing Elizabeth, we can take this up at another time." Darcy did his best to avoid telling any more of the tale.  "Oh no, Fitzwilliam," Elizabeth's eyes drew into small slits as she realized her husband's ploy. "You shall not get out of this so easily."  Mrs. Reynolds entered the library with a tray of tea and cakes, and set it down next to Elizabeth. "I find that this child of yours likes to kick up his heels at this time every evening. Perhaps he will find assemblies more agreeable than his father does, but for now he seems satisfied after having a little something nourishing." Elizabeth took a sip of tea then lifted her chin in defiance. "Pray, continue."  "If you wish." Darcy smiled, "Where was I?"  "You were about to attend an assembly in Lambton," she reminded him cheerfully.  "Oh, yes...the memorable event that it was," he grumbled.  *******************  Young Darcy stepped into his father's study and waited by the door. "Come in, Fitzwilliam." Mr. Darcy looked down at his son, "How go your adventures today?"  "Very well, Papa. Papa, are we to go to an assembly tonight?"  A warm smile came to Mr. Darcy's face. "Yes, son, we are."  "Might I stay at home, Papa?" the boy asked as he plopped down in a chair in front of the large study desk.  "No, Fitzwilliam, you may not," Mr. Darcy said without hesitation. He knew his son had an aversion to such social engagements, even at his tender age.  "But, Papa..." the boy began to protest.  "Fitzwilliam," Mr. Darcy's voice was firm. "Summer is a time for families to engage in local society. It is a time for young men to put down their books and learn the refinements which will one day be required of them. You do not have to like it, Fitzwilliam, but you do have to participate."  A disappointed scowl started to appear on young Darcy's face, until he thought the better of it in the presence of his father.  "How will you know how to behave in society, if you do not learn it now?" Mr. Darcy looked at his son with a patient smile. "Besides, it is a good opportunity to go while your cousins are present. They are very amiable young men and you would do well by following their examples."  "Why must I know it Papa? Especially if I am already betrothed?" the son grasped at straws.  "Betrothed?" Mr. Darcy's eyes widened with doubt. "To that daughter of de Bourgh's?! Rubbish my boy, you will choose your own mate." Mr. Darcy added beneath his breath, "Preferably one with a little life in her."  Young Darcy sighed as he realized he was losing the battle of wills with his father. He was doomed to spend an evening bowing and affecting some sign of pleasure for the young girls whose mother's pushed them in his general vicinity. He would detest every agonizing moment of the whole affair.  Mr. Darcy stood up from his desk and put his arm around his son's shoulders, "A country assembly provides good practice for the balls you shall attend in your future. You never know who you will meet, Fitzwilliam. You may meet the love of your life at one."  The boy's shoulders slumped forward in subjugation, "I should imagine not, Papa."  **************  'Twas neither Rosamond nor Jane Shore,  Whose beauty was clear and bright,  That could surpass this country lass,  Beloved of lord and knight.  The Earl of Huntingdon, nobly born,  That came of noble blood,  To Marian went, with a good intent,  By the name of Robin Hood.  With kisses sweet their red lips meet,  For she and the earl did agree;  In every place, they kindly embrace,  With love and sweet unity.  The Darcys and Fitzwilliams entered the assembly room at Lambton to the great amazement of the other prestigious town folk. They were not often seen at assemblies, so this was indeed a distinguished occasion. Young Darcy moved off to the courtyard with the other boys, as their parents engaged in polite conversation before the dance. The children present held their own dance of sorts out on the courtyard, in the shadows of their parents. It was how one practiced proper etiquette at such functions and prepared to be ladies and gentlemen.  Darcy and Richard stood in a corner and looked on as Edward boldly approached one young lady to ask for the favor of a dance. The young girl blushed and gladly accepted, knowing even at her tender age, what an honor it was to be noticed by the eldest son of an Earl.  The whole business made Darcy's stomach churn. His shyness and reserve did nothing to recommend him to others, and some of the children thought him conceited and proud.  "Well, Wills, do you see a girl who strikes your fancy?" Richard inquired with a grin.  Darcy glanced around the courtyard, shyly eyeing the young girls as they all giggled and blushed.  "They are laughing at us, Richard," Darcy spoke, rather in distress.  Richard smiled at his cousin, "They are not laughing, Wills, they are flirting." Darcy furrowed his brow as he attempted to digest his cousin's counsel. Richard put his hand on Darcy's shoulder, "Think of this as a game. Surely, if it is a game, you can overcome a little stage fright."  "Stage fright!" Darcy exclaimed. "You are wrong, Richard. Girls do not scare me!"  "Have it your own way, Cousin. Look, there are two girls about our ages. I shall ask the one to dance and you shall ask the other."  "Which one, the right or the left?" Darcy inquired, as the butterflies in his stomach threatened to bring him to his knees.  "It does not matter...come on." Richard tugged on Darcy's coat sleeve.  "I beg your pardon," Richard bowed gallantly to the young ladies. "My name is Richard Fitzwilliam and this is my cousin, Fitzwilliam Darcy." Richard looked over at his cousin who was standing and staring at the girls with a slight frown on his face. He reached over and poked Darcy on the shoulder and Darcy bowed as rehearsed. The girls curtsied and batted their eyelashes in a way in which their mothers would have been proud.  "My name is Mary Hanby and this is my friend, Annabelle Martin." Sweet Mary smiled at Richard, and Darcy let out a meager groan as Richard was overtaken by a rather comical grin.  "Will you do me the honor of dancing with me, Miss Mary Hanby?" Richard inquired.  Miss Hanby lowered her eyes and nodded her consent, much as a young lady ought. The young pair moved off in another direction, in polite conversation until the dance began. Darcy stood in front of Miss Annabelle Martin, alternating glances between her face and his own feet. Miss Martin was fair enough and not at all displeasing, but Darcy stammered and stuttered and his knees threatened to knock, nonetheless.  "Uh, if you are not otherwise engaged, will you do me the honor of a dance, Miss...Miss..."  "Martin," she coached.  "Miss Martin. Yes, of course." Darcy wiped his sweaty palms on the back of his coat.  "Yes, I thank you," she spoke politely and took Master Darcy's damp hand. Darcy was instantly grateful for the delicate gloves she wore.  The music began to play in the assembly hall and the adults took their places along the line. The children formed two lines of their own, much in imitation of their parents, and the dance began. Darcy moved as he had been taught by his mother and father, all the while praying to the Almighty that he would not miss a step or accidentally trounce upon Miss Martin's ladylike foot.  To his own satisfaction, Darcy made it through the set with hardly a misfortune and he was quite pleased with the performance. When he took Miss Martin away from the dance floor he noticed his cousins and friends were still engaged with their young ladies. Darcy looked back at Miss Martin, wondering how a boy began a conversation with a girl.  "Do you attend Eton, Master Darcy?" Miss Martin asked.  "Yes, my cousins and I are all home on holiday for the summer."  Miss Martin nodded politely and awaited further input from young Master Darcy. You could almost see the wheels turning in Darcy's mind as he strained to think of plausible things to say. Finally he simply asked Miss Martin if she cared to take a turn with him and she accepted.  They walked along the back veranda and down the stone steps into a small park. Darcy mustered his courage and took a good look at Miss Annabelle Martin as she strolled a pace or two in front of him. She was not disagreeable to him and she possessed pretty dark curls, that bounced when she walked, and fair skin. He supposed those to be the qualities of a young lady which should attract a young man and he was quite impressed with himself that he had actually taken notice.  "What do you do for amusement during the summer, Master Darcy?" she said as she stopped under an oak tree and turned to face him.  Darcy was caught off guard as his gaze met with Miss Martin's large brown eyes. His own eyes wandered down to the bridge of her small nose which was lightly freckled in a rather fine way. Her teeth were tolerable, he supposed, and she had a comforting smile.  "Um, well...I...I read, and we have gone riding. We have been lately at the old ruins near Bristol Cross. Sometimes we run into Lambton from Pemberley to play cricket on the green."  "I live near the green. Perhaps I shall see you there soon?"  "Perhaps," Darcy stammered and blushed, then the two stood for some time, a rather pregnant pause coming between them. Finally Darcy managed to say, "I suppose we should be getting back to the assembly."  Miss Martin nodded, then turned when she heard her mother calling her name from the veranda. She quickly looked back at the handsome young man in front of her and before Darcy knew it, Miss Martin placed a tender kiss on Darcy's unsuspecting lips, then ran back to the assembly room.  Young Darcy could barely move a muscle as he contemplated what had just happened to him. It seemed as if his heart stopped beating. Practically every ounce of color drained from his face and his mouth went dry.  "Fitzwilliam!" Richard called out from the veranda. "Wills, where are you?"  Darcy turned around at the sound of his name and on seeing it was his cousin, called out, "Here! Down here!"  Richard came bounding down to the park, wondering what his cousin was doing out alone in the moonlight.  "Richard!" Darcy exclaimed as he began to panic. "That girl, she..."  ***************  "Hold a moment, sir!"  "What my dear?" Darcy looked over at Elizabeth.  Elizabeth looked disconcerted, "You mean to tell me that this girl was so forward as to kiss you?"  "Yes."  "The little tart!" Elizabeth exclaimed under her breath. "Pray, who is she, Fitzwilliam? Does she still live in Lambton?" Elizabeth fumed.  Darcy chuckled as he realized Elizabeth's discomfort at the disclosure of his first kiss. She was not one to exhibit jealousy as a general rule, however her emotions had seemed to be more acute these days.  "Elizabeth, I was a man of eight and twenty when we married," Darcy playfully scolded her. "Did you expect me not to have been in the company of other women before we met?"  Elizabeth tried her best not to pout, "No, I cannot say that I did."  "Besides, Miss Annabelle Martin has long since taken the name of Mrs. Taylor. She married a man from Devonshire and I have not seen her for many years." Darcy took Elizabeth's hand and placed a loving kiss on it, "Rumor has it that she has had at least seven children in as much as ten years."  "I should not doubt it!" Elizabeth huffed and stiffly shifted her position in the chair.  Darcy glanced again at Elizabeth with a sly grin on his face, "Perhaps you would wish me to stop for the evening, my dear?"  "Not at all!" she exclaimed. "That is unless you are to inform me of any other young wenches who happened to make such advances on your person?"  "No, dear. I shall not tell you about any of the others," Darcy pretended to study the toy sword, awaiting his wife's reaction. Out of the corner of his eye he saw her pick up her embroidery and begin to busy her hands and her mind with something more constructive.  "Pray, continue," she sighed.  
		 Chapter 4 There were outlaws, as 't is well known,  And men of a noble blood;  And a many a time was their valour shown  In the forrest of merry Sherwood.  Upon a time it chanced so,  As Robin Hood would have it be,  They all three would a walking go,  Some pastimes for to see.  As Richard and Darcy walked along the path towards the lake they could hear Edward singing at the top of his voice. The boys stopped and hid themselves behind a tree as they watched Edward cooling himself in Pemberley's lake, quite by himself, happily raising his voice in song.  They each looked at the other and grinned, for Edward was indeed a sorry singer. Richard looked around and spied Edward's clothes resting atop a boulder next to another tree.  "Wills," Richard snickered lowly. "He is stark naked! Look, there are his clothes."  Darcy began to giggle, but bit his lip for fear of Edward finding them out. "Do you think he will notice if his clothes turn up missing?"  "Not at all," Richard stifled a laugh. "What does one need with clothes on such a warm day?"  The boys crawled over to the rock and pulled off Edward's togs, tucking them under their arms. As they hastily returned to the house, they could hear Edward's merry melodies wafting high above their heads.  **************  As Edward pushed the food around on his plate, Fitzwilliam and Richard sat quietly, attempting to keep their faces from showing their guilt, though Edward's red cheeks made it very difficult.  "Well Edward, I believe you have been taken in by one of the oldest tricks in the book." The Earl looked to his son with a stealthy grin upon his face. "It must have been one of the tenant children who took your clothes, for no son of mine would ever do anything so low." He eyed his youngest son and pursed his lips.  Glancing at his own father, young Darcy found a look of disapproval. He lowered his eyes to his plate to hide his mirth and quietly ate the meal before him. Darcy nearly choked on his food as the Earl recounted how Edward had been forced to make his way to the stables, quite in the buff, only to bribe a stable hand for a horse blanket to wrap himself in so he would be able to make his way into the house.  Young Richard let out a snicker at the image his father brought forth. "Do you find this amusing Richard?" his father barked.  Richard gathered his faculties and snapped to attention, "No sir, not at all."  "And you, Fitzwilliam?" Mr. Darcy inquired sternly of his own son. "You appear to be quite amused by your cousin's misfortune."  "No, sir, excepting that it does lend itself to a rather ridiculous picture," Young Darcy's grin broke out into open laughter as Richard let out a brief guffaw.  "Mind your impertinence, boy!" Mr. Darcy reprimanded his son. "The table is no place for your foolishness. Perhaps a night spent in your room would be appropriate. Take yourself there now, straight away!"  "Yes, Father," Darcy got up from the table with his head bowed and quickly slipped from the room.  "You too, Richard, and do not let me catch you laughing at your brother's expense again!" The Earl snapped.  "Yes, sir." Richard followed his cousin's example and obediently left the room.  The Earl turned to his brother-in-law with a purposeful look which was returned by a meaningful twitch of Mr. Darcy's brow before Edward could catch either gesture.  Darcy and Richard headed for their rooms side by side, grinning as they went. They both knew it would go better on them to take the easier punishment, than be made to confess and suffer a worse infliction. Confinement to their rooms was not such a bad ordeal, as it also saved them from the wrath of Edward. They both had stowed a few good books in their rooms, for just such occasions.  ****************  It was Sunday and the morning was spent in church. This was akin to torture for most young boys, as it was expected of them to sit quietly and reflect for longer than they deemed tolerable. They had to listen to tedious sermons, droned on by vicars. This week's subject was concerning the propriety of virtue.  Young Darcy sat next to his father in the family's usual pew. He glanced around the church and happened to see Miss Annabelle Martin sitting across from him, with her parents. She gave him a shy smile as he caught her eye and he looked back around and tried his best to pay attention to the sermon.  He thought perhaps he should feel some guilt at having compromised the young girl. As he contemplated it more, he decided that the experience had not been wholly bad. In fact he had rather enjoyed his first experience with the opposite sex. And besides it had been she who had kissed him. He let his mind drift back to his present situation. He fidgeted in his seat as he thought of the battles to be waged and victories to be claimed down by the ruins.  Mr. Darcy looked down at his son and noticed his discontent. Though not unsympathetic to the discomfort of a hot, stuffy room, there was etiquette to be maintained. He reached down and put his hand on his son's knee, implying to the boy to remain on his best behavior.  Young Darcy knew the meaning of the press of his father's hand. His father was kind and loving, and not given to an ill-temper as some he had seen. However, he had learned that it was not wise to test his father's patience too severely. From as much of a desire to please his father as to avoid any further gesture of correction, Fitzwilliam shifted once more and there after tried to emulate his father's still and composed posture.  *********************  Robin was a gentle boy,  And therewithal as bold;  To say he was his mother's joy,  It were a phrase too cold.  His hair upon his thoughtful brow  Came smoothly clipped, and sleek,  But ran into a curl somehow  Beside his merrier cheek.  When the family arrived home, Darcy went upstairs and knocked on his mother's bedchamber door.  "Mama, may I come in?"  "Yes, Fitzwilliam. I would very much like to see you." Lady Anne's voice consoled him. Lady Anne had taken to bed, for she had recently discovered she was with child, and she had begun to feel somewhat ill. The much awaited news that a child was on the way had been a long time in coming for the Darcys, being as Fitzwilliam was already eleven. He really had no idea of the impact a baby would make on his life. He did not understand any of it at all, nor did he particularly care to.  "How do you feel, Mama?" he inquired.  "Well enough, under the circumstances. Are you and your cousins behaving yourselves? I do not wish to know that you are giving your father grief."  Fitzwilliam smiled mischievously, "Fairly well, Mama."  "You are not climbing trees, and bashing each other with those sticks are you?" his mother raised her eyebrow in question.  "Mama, it is what boys do! If I am not allowed, there will be nothing left to do and the summer will be for naught!" Darcy protested.  "Fitzwilliam, I should not want any harm to come to you. You will surely hurt yourselves wielding those sticks and hanging like monkeys from the trees."  Darcy watched his mother shift her position in the bed and close her eyes as a wave of illness overtook her. "Are you sure you are well, Mama?"  "Yes, dear, it is only a little discomfort is all. It is endurable, as it is a sign that the baby is well enough."  ***************  "Your poor mama, Fitzwilliam," Elizabeth sighed. "I do know how she felt." Elizabeth lowered her feet from the stool and sat forward to stretch as much as she was able.  "Shall we walk for a bit, my love?" Darcy stood up and gave her his hand.  "Hmm, around the room will be sufficient for I would not wish you to forget to continue your story," she smiled up at her husband.  "Somehow I think you will not let that happen."  Elizabeth stood up from her chair. "Ooh...there...," she stopped and grabbing Darcy's hand, placed it over the baby. "There, do you feel it?" she giggled.  Darcy did feel the baby poking and jabbing. "Does that hurt, my love?" he asked, looking a little squeamish, but with a smile nonetheless.  Elizabeth shook her head, "It mostly tickles, although sometimes the tyke gets a good shot in. It is however, a very reassuring feeling."  Darcy's smile faded into a somber trance. He leaned over and kissed Elizabeth tenderly, as he whispered, "My dearest."  "What is the matter, Fitzwilliam?" she inquired.  Darcy shook his head, "Had I only known back then, the things I know now. How I would not have given my father so much grief. He must have been concerned about my mother, and about the baby. Instead of being allowed to attend to his obligations and worries, he had to contend with the antics of a spoilt boy." Darcy heaved a sigh as he thought of his father, but his smile reappeared as he felt his own child move again against his hand, reassuring him that everything was well.  
		 Chapter 5 Despite the looming threat of parental chastisement, Darcy and Richard continued their pranks on Edward. His irritation upon discovering their chicanery was simply too prime to be ignored. For Richard, it was a matter of restitution from Edward for being the older brother. For Darcy, however, it was merely good sport.  Edward fancied himself a brave and fearless hunter, for he had been on a hunt once with his father and Mr. Darcy earlier that year. He delighted in tormenting the younger boys with the fact that he had become of age to be taken on such prestigious events, while they were still babies, as he liked to call them. This was cause for great vexation for the younger boys.  During the summer months, bats had been known to harbor themselves in the attics of Pemberley house. That summer had been no different, and Mr. Darcy warned the children that if they were to see any, they must tell him immediately, and never touch the creatures for fear they would be bitten.  The younger boys delighted as Mr. Darcy told them this, especially when they saw Edward shiver in disgust at the thought of encountering such vermin. Later that night, when everyone was in bed there was a knock on young Darcy's bedchamber door. He scurried from his bed and opened the door, as Richard stealthily slipped into the room.  "Wills, did you see? Edward is afraid of the bats!"  "I do not blame him, Richard. I have seen one and the sight of them makes your skin crawl." Darcy shook off the shiver that invaded his body.  Richard made a determined face, "Edward does not know that we fear them! I have an idea, but I need your help."  "Oh no!" Darcy resolutely shook his head. "I am not capturing any bats!"  Richard folded his arms across his chest. "I did not know you were such a coward, Wills!"  "A coward, I?" Darcy was incredulous. "Surely you are making a joke."  "Then you will help me?" Richard said with glee.  Darcy nodded his head, then decided he would visit the library in the morning and restock his room with a few more good books. He had a feeling that when his father found out what they were up to, he would be spending more time in solitary.  *************  The next morning, the boys were up early and stole out of the house before being missed. They ran down the lawn and stopped under a large pine tree, looking underneath for a pinecone which would be precisely the right size. Darcy picked up a perfect specimen and shoved it in the pocket of his coat.  After breakfast, the boys went up to their rooms to gather their arsenal for play. Edward entered his bedchamber followed by Darcy.  "What?" Edward scowled at the younger boy.  Darcy shrugged his shoulders, "Nothing. I thought today you could be Robin of Loxley."  "Really?" Edward grinned. He no sooner began to rejoice at his good fortune when Richard came running into his bedchamber looking quite ghastly.  "Edward! There! In my room!" Richard pointed hysterically.  "What?" Edward gasped, "What is it?"  "Something on the floor of my bed chamber!" Richard yelled. "You must go and fetch it!"  "I am not going to fetch it!" Edward screamed back. "It is probably a bat!"  Darcy stood behind Edward and nearly laughed at his older cousin's distress. "You are the oldest, and besides you are the great hunter, or so you say," Darcy snarled at him. "Richard and I are merely babies!"  "That is right! You are babies!" Edward sneered back.  "Well, I am not afraid of a flying rodent!" Darcy went to Edward's bureau and found a small box on top of it. He emptied it of its contents and he opened the secretary drawer and took out a few sheets of paper.  "What are you doing?" Edward yelped as he watched his younger cousin.  "I am going to fetch it in this box! I shall put the box over it, then slide the paper underneath and turn the whole thing over. Then I shall take the poor creature outside and let it go!"  Edward stood with his mouth open as he watched Darcy leave the room. Richard began to follow his younger cousin. "Richard! Where are you going?"  "I am going to help Wills catch the beasty," Richard said matter-of-factly.  "You are out of your minds!" Edward screeched.  "And you are fainthearted!" Richard lambasted his brother.  Edward was besides himself with vexation. He had boasted of his courage and daring to his younger sibling and cousin. Now here he was, standing idly by as the younger boys risked life and limb to rid the household of such scourge.  Darcy returned to Edward's room within a few minutes, with the box in his hand and the paper over it. "I got it!" he exclaimed with a grin.  "Nay, you are pulling my leg, you are!" Edward smiled. "There is nothing in that box."  "There is so!" Darcy protested. "Here, take a look!"  Darcy moved forward and slid the paper off the box a bit. Edward backed up and nearly fell on his backside in his haste to get away. "You are bluffing! There is nothing in that box!"  Darcy took the box and tilted it to the side. Edward heard something in the box scratching, then bump the other side of the box. Edward's eyes flew open wide and he started backing up farther and faster.  "Do you not want to see it Edward?" Richard asked with a grin. "I saw it in my room. It is black and ugly, with big wings and fangs!" Richard imitated the creature the best he could.  "Uh...no...no..." Edward stammered as the panic in him grew worse. "Get it OUT of here!"  Darcy moved the paper away from the box a little more and looked inside, "It looks harmless enough."  Edward became desperate, "Wills, take it AWAY! It will surely bite you and then you will be frothing at the mouth!"  "Not from a little thing like this!" Darcy grinned and pulled the paper from the box. He looked inside, then with a jump, heaved the box up, letting its contents fly out in Edward's direction.  Edward shrieked out loud and fell to the floor, then quickly crawled out of the room screaming at the top of his lungs. The younger boys were besides themselves as they fell onto Edward's bed in fits of laughter.  Richard ran over and picked up the pine cone from the floor and held it in the air. "Some great hunter he turned out to be! Afraid of a big, ugly pine cone!"  *************  In summer time when leaves grow green  'Twas a seemly sight to see  How Robin Hood himselfe had drest  And all his yeomandrie.  He clad himselfe in scarlett red  His men in Lincoln green  And so prepares for London towne,  To shoot before the lovely queen.  The boys had planned to run into Lambton that day to play cricket on the green. Young Wickham had told them a few of the boys from the village were organizing a game and all those willing and able were to be invited.  When they arrived at the green that morning, the scene looked like a knightly tournament, with young men waiting to show their expertise at sport, and young ladies lined up along the sides of the field to cheer on their favorites. Miss Mary Hanby was there, eager to see young Richard Fitzwilliam. Richard obliged the young lady, walking over to where she stood with her friends and taking a moment to play the flirting game, which he had tried to explain to Darcy after the assembly, but to no avail.  Darcy stood some ways back and watched his cousin's amiable nature with those of the opposite sex. It was no matter whether young Darcy wished to participate in this particular game, for in his opinion he would never have a talent for it. He noticed Miss Annabelle Martin amongst the girls and for some reason he felt obliged to make sure she noticed his presence. Edward threw Darcy a ball and Darcy began to make several practice bowls, while Edward took a few swings.  Darcy was convinced that there was no better way for a chap to be noticed by a girl, than while engaged in a little sport. Each time he bowled he would steal a glance over in Miss Martin's direction, to make sure she was thoroughly impressed with the figure he cut on the playing field. Miss Martin watched and smiled as Master Darcy did his best to look impressive for her benefit. Darcy was vexed however, when young Wickham made his way over to the group of girls and began to monopolize their attentions.  Darcy bowled the ball again, then looked over in Miss Martin's direction to see her laughing and her eyes sparkling at the amiable conversation of George Wickham. Edward hit the ball and it went flying in Darcy's direction.  "Look out, Wills!" Edward yelled, and Darcy fell to the ground just in time to avoid having his bell rung, much to his complete embarrassment.  When Darcy scrambled to his feet, he stormed over to where Wickham and Richard were entertaining the girls.  "Are we going to play this game?" he huffed in annoyance. "Or are you going to lollygag all day?"  Darcy was selected as captain of one team and Robert Leyton as the other. Young Leyton was a year older than Darcy, and the two boys were neighbors, although they never played much together. Leyton's father and Mr. Darcy were not the best of friends, even though their estates bordered the other. The Darcys and the Leytons had been involved in many land disputes over the years, going back as far as the boys' great grandfathers. It seemed, in the opinion of the Darcys, that the Leytons were always making claim to Pemberley lands. The feud had been perpetuated throughout the years, but both boys knew very little of the particulars, only that their families were not on good terms.  Wickham was chosen as umpire, much to the chagrin of both captains, for Wickham was known to make some very questionable calls. The teams were nominated and play commenced near about noon that day. The constable was taking his midday turn about Lambton when he stopped to watch the friendly play on the green. Seeing no problems he decided to continue on, although he decided it best to come back by the green after some time.  Unbeknownst to Darcy and his cousins, there had been a match a fortnight before, which had turned into an all-out brawl. The constable was in no humor to see the same thing happen on this day and he swore to himself that if there was any mischief, someone would face the consequences.  The midday sun beat down on the green and after about an hour, most of the boys began to feel hot and testy. There were a few occasions when Darcy and Leyton had argued over a call of Wickham's. However Edward and Richard, and a few friends of Leyton's, had done their best to keep the peace.  A new boy walked onto the field for Leyton's side and upon seeing this, Darcy ran over to Wickham.  "Who is he?" Darcy questioned in annoyance.  Leyton came out onto the field, "I am making a change in players!"  "You cannot do that!" Darcy looked at Wickham, "I say, he cannot do that! It is against the rules!"  "'Tis not!" exclaimed Leyton.  By now the rest of the boys gathered around as Leyton and Darcy argued the rules of the game.  "You nominated your players and the rules state that you cannot make a change in the middle of the match without my consent!" Darcy huffed, quite put out at Leyton's audacity to mangle the rules.  "Darcy," Wickham smiled nervously, "give him your consent so we can get back to the play."  Darcy began to waiver in his determination to stick with the rules, especially since he was hot and tired. He made a move to give his consent when Leyton interrupted him.  "He will never consent! Like father like son!" Leyton quipped.  Darcy frowned in anger, "What is that suppose to mean?" Richard held onto Darcy's arm as the angered boy began to charge back towards his accuser.  "It means you are as unbending as a fence post," Leyton smirked.  Darcy's face screwed up in detest of the other boy, however Richard and Edward kept their hold on him. Wickham could quickly see how the sides were drawing and quietly moved around the outer edge of the circle, careful to stay on the side of his benefactor's son, yet with the easiest means for escape if it came to that.  "At least I can win and play by the rules, instead of cheating by moving the fence posts!"  Leyton's face was red with anger as he came within inches of Darcy, shoving the boy's shoulder with the tips of his fingers, "You are stubborn and absurd."  "Here now, Leyton, there is no need..." But Edward was not allowed to finish as he let go Darcy's arm to move Leyton's hand away. Darcy had heard enough.  With a sharp jab to the belly, Darcy knocked the wind out of Leyton. A boy came flying across the line, intent on defending his captain from Darcy's attack, but knocked into Richard instead, sending them both to the ground.  Within a few moments there were boys flying everywhere, knocking each other down and tumbling about in the grass. Girls were screaming at the horrifying scene, although in reality they thought it fairly good sport to watch the boys fussing and fighting.  There was a market at one corner of the green where local farmers sold their fruits and vegetables during the summer months. Wickham ran by one farmer's cart, trying to flee one of Leyton's supporters. But the other boy was too quick as he reached out and caught Wickham by the coat, flinging him around.  Wickham reached behind into the farmer's cart and grasped a melon in his hands. He raised it above him and let it down hard upon the boy's head. Thankfully, the melon was extremely ripe and only succeeded in making the lad look like a fruit salad. When he had cleared away the juice that was dripping down into his eyes, Wickham was gone. That did not much matter, though, as he grabbed two more melons and ran back to the fray. Soon boys were pulling out melons left and right, pelting each other in frenzied assault. The poor farmer tried his best to protect his crop, however every time he went to interfere he was splattered with another of his own melons.  Darcy and Leyton were rolling around on the ground punching and kicking one another, when Richard came up behind them with a melon.  "I say, break it up!" Richard yelled, but the boys kept punching and rolling. Richard waited until Leyton was on top of Darcy, then let the melon crack onto Leyton's head. Darcy scrambled to his feet as Leyton rolled off, confused by the surprise attack.  "Thank you, Richard!" Darcy grinned.  "Do not mention it, Wills!" Richard laughed.  They no sooner turned around to join the rest of the brawl when someone caught them by the scruffs of their collars.  "I never thought I would see it come to this!" bellowed the constable. He and some of his men gathered the boys that had not run off and took them back to the constable's office. They placed all the boys into a cell, including Darcy, his cousins, and Leyton. "Now, there will be no trouble out of you boys! Your parents will be notified of your whereabouts and you shall remain here until they can fetch you!"  Darcy turned around and looked about the cell. There were battered and bruised boys everywhere, and each and every one of them covered with melon pulp and seeds. Darcy made his way to one of the wooden benches and sat down with his head in his hands. He thought it very likely he could cry as he imagined the anger of his father and the grief of his poor mother upon hearing the news he was incarcerated.  He looked up to see Edward and Richard looking much the same way. "Father will have our heads, or worse!" Edward moaned.  "Edward, do not speak of it," Richard sighed as his heart pounded at the thought of their father's likely rebuke.  There was a commotion at the door and every boy in the cell stood at attention, believing that his father was to enter the room to claim him. You could hear a pin drop as a figure entered the room and came around the corner to peer into the cell.  The constable's keys jangled as he opened the lock and called out, "Robert Leyton, you are to go." Robert Leyton left the cell and stood next to the constable. Darcy saw Mr. Leyton come around the corner with a mortified look on his face. He grabbed the back of his son's collar and pulled him out of the room. Every boy in the cell jumped as they heard the front door slam and the driver of a carriage call out huskily to his team as the horses sped away.  It was not long before Mr. Darcy and the Earl got word of their sons' whereabouts and drove to Lambton to fetch them. The Earl menacingly came around the corner of the room and stood before the cell. His face was stone cold as he glared at his sons. Darcy had never seen Edward and Richard look so timid, or his uncle look so furious.  The constable opened the cell door and the Earl growled, "Get into the carriage, both of you!" Both boys did as they were told, leaving Darcy still within the cell. The Earl looked at his nephew and frowned, then left the room. Darcy wiped the sweat from his palms wondering where his father was as he turned around to look at the remaining boys.  "Darcy!" the constable's voice boomed through the silence, causing the boy to nearly jump out of his skin at the sound of his name. Darcy turned to take leave, but froze where he stood, upon finding his father waiting him with ominous silence.  "Come out, boy. Your father is waiting," the constable chastised.  Darcy could not look up as he came to stand before his father and the constable.  "Mr. Darcy, sir," the constable started apologetically, "your son has never before been into trouble here. If it were not for...well, sir...if it were not for his part in this mess, I'd gladly have him go without another word on the subject."  Darcy glanced up to find his father glaring at him, "Are you responsible for this scuffle, Fitzwilliam?"  Darcy searched his father's eyes, desperate to find any hint of leniency as he justified his involvement, "Papa, I had no choice! Leyton insulted me...our family...." The smoldering anger in his father's eyes, told him his defense was of little use. Hanging his head in dismay, Darcy admitted quietly, "So I hit him."  The constable cleared his throat, before venturing tentatively, "Aye, sir and there's more to the story, if you please."  Mr. Darcy frowned darkly as he pointed his son to a bench along the wall, "Fitzwilliam, sit yourself down. I will hear out the constable."  While trying not to appear so, Darcy strained to hear the conversation taking place across the room, but all he could hear were snatches of information.  "...came running for me...reluctant to say...said he'd be getting someone into trouble whom he'd rather not..."  "...where is he..."  "Sent him home, like a good lad...what else am I to think...Master Darcy standing in the middle of it all..."  "...lost the entire cartful?"  "That he did, sir...I cannot let your son..."  Unfortunately, the last was pronounced with great clarity as his father turned toward him, "You have my assurance he will be thoroughly punished. And please see that Mr. Landers receives this." Mr. Darcy took out his money clip and handed a five pound note to the constable. "Please accept my apologies for the trouble you have been caused."  Darcy slipped quietly into the space next to his cousins as his father took his place next to the Earl.  "Brother, Fitzwilliam has admitted to starting the fight," Mr. Darcy informed the Earl sadly. "And according to young Wickham, Fitzwilliam was also the first to raid the farmer's cart."  Young Darcy exchanged a wide-eyed look of disbelief with Edward and Richard, before sputtering an objection, "But Papa...I did not...I never..."  Edward, feeling the responsibility fell to him as the eldest among the boys, interrupted his cousin, "Father, it is not right that Wickham told the constable..."  "You are in no position to judge Wickham's actions," the Earl growled, believing his son to be condemning the boy for telling on the others. "I want to hear nothing more from you...from either of you," the Earl eyed his sons sharply.  Mr. Darcy rapped the ceiling of the carriage with his walking stick and the carriage began its silent journey to Pemberley.  Darcy and his father walked into the front doors of Pemberley house. Lady Anne was waiting for them in the hallway and Darcy stood before her trembling as he saw the grief on her face.  "Oh! Fitzwilliam, are you hurt?" Lady Anne cried as she knelt down to her son, immediately using her handkerchief to wipe away the grime left by the dirt and pulp. The gentle strokes of her cloth revealed a small cut on his lip and a tenderness on his cheek. "My dear boy, you are hurt," his mother pronounced with alarm as she scanned over his person for other sign of injury. Suddenly Lady Anne turned ashen and wavered dangerously as she grasped for her husband's aid. Relying on the support of her husband's arms, Lady Anne fanned herself with her handkerchief until realizing it to also be a source of her distress. Casting it away from her, she fanned herself with her hand to rid her senses of the smell causing a consuming waive of nausea. "Mr. Darcy, that odor...I am unwell..."  As he gently led his wife to a place to lie down, Mr. Darcy shot his son a sharp look, "Get to your room, Fitzwilliam, and clean yourself up. I shall be up in a moment and we shall have a talk."  Darcy let go the crumpled cloth of his shirt he had been worrying with his hands as he looked up at his father. That 'talk' was most likely not the correct phrasing for what his father had in mind, Darcy was sure, however he was in no position to argue the point. With one last look of concern for his mother, he quietly did as he was told.  That night young Darcy lay on his bed, smarting from the punishment his father had inflicted, while also dreading what was yet to come, and from the lesson in human nature he had learned that day. He was angry with Robert Leyton for provoking his anger and speaking ill of his father. He was incredulous that George Wickham should implicate him when he had never been anything but forthright with him. He was upset that his father had taken the word of the constable and assumed his guilt without giving him a chance to explain. But mostly young Darcy was disappointed in himself, for being the cause of such misery to his parents.  ****************  Elizabeth looked over at Darcy. "Melons?" she laughed.  Darcy smiled slightly and nodded his head, "Hmm, it was quite a scene."  "How so like Wickham to behave in such a way, Fitzwilliam. It is a wonder you have tolerated him all these years. How did you know it was really he who owned the guilt?"  "Richard told me later, after the length of his punishment was fulfilled."  "Was your uncle very severe?" Elizabeth asked sympathetically.  Darcy's tone was sincere, "My uncle did not countenance having "felons" for sons and made it painfully clear." Then adding with a wry smile, "Mention the Lambton Honeydew Affair and you will witness one of the few things to make the Colonel blanch."  "And you? Was your punishment 'thorough'?" Elizabeth questioned, repeating the word her husband had recounted.  Darcy shifted unconsciously in his chair, remembering his father's words and the licks of the birch branch that had followed. 'You are a Darcy, not some hooligan who goes brawling about. There will always be some windbag challenging you.' The now-grown Darcy smiled momentarily at his father's inadvertent admission of his opinion of the Leyton men. 'You must use your head, Fitzwilliam. Choose your battles carefully or you may wind up at the point of some fool's sword.' Darcy sighed as he admitted, "I was banned from the green for the remainder of the holiday."  Elizabeth pondered her husband's demeanor. For a moment, she thought him to look just as he might as that eleven year-old boy. The blunt-end of the sword he held had fallen to the floor as he contemplated some thought with a broodish push of his lower lip. "And...?" She pressed, with unspoken mirth, wondering that there was not something more.  Darcy glanced at her uncomfortably, before mumbling to the floor what had been the worst of his punishment, "And, I had to apologize to Leyton the next day." But Darcy's pout soon turned to an evil grin as he felt the satisfaction he had known then upon seeing the dark blue and green bruise consuming "master" Leyton's right eye. Darcy lifted the sword's point to an angle of inspection as he murmured, "I swore to myself then I would never allow myself be humiliated by that person."  Elizabeth flushed and looked down to her needlework, realizing all that more acutely what her husband had forgiven her in the circumstance of her first meeting with Robert Leyton. *  "And you never told your father?" Elizabeth asked curiously, also turning the discussion away from their querulous neighbor, "That is, you never told him of Wickham's involvement?"  Darcy looked a little sad as he rested back into his chair, reflecting, "He was a fair man, Elizabeth. He would have been grieved to know he had believed less of his own son than his steward's and made me suffer for it."  *Elaine's admiring reference to Lou's story, ""His Lady's Calling"
		 Chapter 6  Once their fathers deemed them sufficiently punished for the incident on the green, the boys were allowed to continue their pursuits at the ruins. After breakfast, young Darcy ran to his room, grabbed the sword and scurried down the stairs to catch up with Edward and Richard. In his haste, he practically ran into his mother in the gallery.  "Fitzwilliam!" she exclaimed. "Dearest, do be careful with that stick. You are surely going to hurt someone with it."  "Yes, Mama...I shall be back later, Mama!" Darcy assured confidently as he continued on his way.  His mother watched him go, then called after him, "And do not climb into the trees!"  When the boys reached the ruins they drew sticks to see who would have to be the villain. Darcy unfortunately lost the draw and resigned himself to the odious task of portraying the sheriff of Nottingham. He decided to fight fire with fire this time and he ran into the wood and scurried into a tree, laying in wait of the merry men.  When he saw Edward come bounding out from behind some brush, Darcy slipped his leg over the branch he was sitting on and dared to jump down and scare his cousin. His ploy worked. He did frighten his cousin, however Darcy landed hard and fell backward as his feet hit the ground. He reached back and his arm became pinned between a rock and his body. He yelled out as he felt a sharp pain from the twisting of his arm.  Richard and Edward ran over to him, "Wills, are you hurt?" Richard yelled.  Edward reached for Darcy's shoulder to help him up, but when he touched it, Darcy screamed out in pain, "No...no...do not touch it!"  Edward ran back to Pemberley house for some help and Richard stayed with his cousin until the Earl, Mr. Darcy and a few household attendants came running. They carried master Darcy back to the house, where Lady Anne was waiting to see her son.  "Mr. Darcy...Mr. Darcy...what has happened? Will he be well?" she exclaimed frantically.  "Yes, dear...he will be fine," her husband consoled her.  Darcy remembered looking at his mother as the attendants carried him up the stairs. She was worried beyond consolation and he saw her grab his father's arm as she held Darcy's toy sword in her other hand.  ************  "You know my dear, that was the last time I remembered seeing it," Darcy looked at the toy sword.  Elizabeth gave a motherly smile, "She must have hidden it in the trunk in the attic, so that there would be no danger of you hurting yourself."  "I suppose you are right," Darcy sighed then gave a chuckle. "All these years I thought Edward took it. I owe him an apology, I think." Darcy looked over at his wife, and saw her fatigue. It was getting late. He had kept her from their bed and much needed rest for too long with his stories of that summer long ago. "Elizabeth, you must go to bed now. I shall take you up, directly."  "Fitzwilliam, I am fine--really," she half-heartedly protested. "What became of the rest of that summer?"  "There was not much more to it, really. I spent the rest of my holiday nursing my wrenched shoulder and arm. My uncle, aunt and cousins left a few weeks later to return to London and my father sent me with them to return to school. He had always taken me to London himself before then. I suppose he was too worried to leave my mother alone."  Elizabeth noticed Darcy's happy countenance fall as he thought of that time. She thought he looked melancholy and thought to inquire. But then, she saw his features harden into the taciturn man she knew him to be when he was resolved not to let the world inside his being.  Darcy helped his wife up from the chair and they slowly walked out of the library and above stairs to their chambers. Darcy left Elizabeth safely in the capable hands of her maid. "I shall be back, my love. I am going to take a turn about the house." He kissed her and she smiled wearily, putting a hand to her back and one to her side as she thought of laying her growing body down in their comfortable bed.  Darcy walked out into the hallway with a candle and began his nightly inspection of the house. When he entered the library he walked over and picked up the toy sword from the chair. He gave one last swipe through the air with it, then held up the candle to look at the painting of himself and his mother. He moved the candle over to his right and illuminated a portrait of his father, taken around the same time of his eleventh year.  "Father," Darcy sighed out loud. "Why could you not have let me be a boy for just a little longer? Where is it written that a Darcy must be serious and reserved, when there is so much more to life?"  Darcy leaned against the desk for a time, in quiet contemplation. He remembered how he had been unsure of his life after that summer. His sister had been born while he was at school and she had become the child in the family. His father had encouraged him from then on to be a little more serious in his studies and when he was home on holiday, his father insisted that he learn about the managing of the estate and affairs of business. It was not long after when Lady Anne became ill and left Mr. Darcy alone with his son and a small daughter. Fitzwilliam Darcy had felt the weight of the responsibilities pressing his father--and his father's loneliness.  "How I wish you were here, Papa," Darcy whispered almost in the manner of a child, as he looked back up at the likeness of his father. "I have so many questions." Tears welled up in Darcy's eyes, "I fear I do not know how to be a father. That was always your part. I was contented to simply be your son."  Darcy breathed in deeply and collected his thoughts. He took one last look at the sword, then placed it in the top drawer of the library desk.  *************  Elizabeth walked along the path to the north of the house for some time, until she came to a clearing where the old ruins stood. She hid safely behind a large tree and peeked around it, quite unnoticed.  "Who goes there?" a tall dark-haired man called down from atop the rubble.  "Tis I Will Scarlet! I have come to pursue Robin the Hood!" a dark-haired boy yelled up, making his voice sound as big as he could.  The man climbed down from his perch atop an old pile of masonry rock, wielding a carved toy sword, "No one sees Robin the Hood!"  "How are we to play Papa, if no one can see you?" the boy said in defeat.  "Of course you can see me, Andrew," Darcy chuckled. "You are suppose to fight me for the right to join the merry men!"  "Oh...," the boy replied, then turned around and called out excitedly. "Christian! Christian! Make haste! Papa is going to challenge us to a battle!"  A very small boy came charging out from behind the bushes with a toy sword in his hand and a wicked grin upon his face. "Come down and battle me, Papa!"  Darcy brandished his toy sword and pretended to fight off the advances of his sons. He was laughing so hard he could barely catch his breath. Andrew stuck his father in the ribs with the blunt point of his sword and Darcy writhed in mock agony and fell to the ground, much to the entertainment of the giggling boys.  "Get up, Papa! Shall we do it again?" Christian tugged on Darcy's sleeve. "I want to do it again!"  "Ah, Christian, I am not as young a man as I used to be. Shall we not rest here a moment?" Darcy smiled and the boys scurried over to where he sat on the ground and took their places at his side. Darcy wrapped his arms around his sons, "Shall I tell you more of Robin Hood?"  Elizabeth smiled, but remained hidden behind the tree, listening to her husband as he began to recite a child's ballad.  They are all gone to London court,  Robin Hood, with all his train;  He once was there a noble peer,  And now he's there again.  Many such pranks brave Robin played  While he lived in the green wood:  Now, my friends, attend, and hear an end  Of honest Robin Hood.  The End.
		
		 © 1998 Copyright held by author
		
		 
		  