TITLE: A Time Before Marriage
AUTHOR: helena6
DATE 2001
		 Chapter 1:--Being a Man This is the story of a young man and his time before marriage. It is universally understood that a man may be considered eligible for marriage so long as he is single and has prospects, a fortune or good looks [and if it can be achieved all three]. Age has very little to do with it. Thus a young man of seven and twenty who is master of his own estate worth up to 10, 000 a year may be said to be eligible by any one’s standards. This was just the position of one Fitzwilliam Darcy. However, eligible that man may be, he also has ample time to think and waver between bachelorhood and marriage. It is up to a woman to make him sure that he cannot possibly remain a bachelor one moment longer. Now remember every man is different. Some are resolved to remain alone, while others are determined from the start to find a partner. A woman will have little control over these sentiments. However, if a man is wise, he will realize that to be alone is no blessing. Women can be very useful creatures and direct heirs cannot be had without them. Thus, if one wants to live to prepare one’s heir, a man had better get a wife sooner rather than later. This being said, a man of seven and twenty, as is our Mr. Darcy, has some time yet before he may fear dying without producing and rearing his successor. Besides there are other considerations a sensible man will think about. When children are grown the husband will remain alone with his wife, until one of them passes on [and it also true that women mostly out live their husbands]. Thus, a prudent man must be patient when seeking a wife and find the one that suits his temperament, responsibilities, social standing and without needing to mention his desire.  Fitzwilliam Darcy [herein after Darcy] met a young man of similar status, though his father had once been in trade. But a good man, and Darcy is a good man, would not hold that against a man, especially when the father is dead and the young man was soon to be of age. Thus a friendship was born and lucky for Mr. Charles Bingley, [hereinafter Bingley] the young man mentioned, because he was of the kind from which crafty people take their advantages. Darcy fortunately dislikes deceitfulness in all its forms and became a suitable companion for Bingley. Darcy encouraging Bingley to join his club, which coincidentally was also the same club to which his brother in-law Mr. Hurst belonged, enhanced their friendship. This supplied Bingley with many hours of wonderment over the universe’s strange curiosities. Darcy’s response to this was that his friend was entirely irrational as the club was very popular amongst finer London circles 
		 Chapter 2:--You Dislike Women One afternoon musing at the club Bingley asked advice of his trusted friend on a most important matter. Now it was not a matter life and death but still one to worry a gentleman. "I know I should buy an estate Darcy, that is what my father wished, but I so enjoy London. The girls here are so pretty and so cultured. I am sure I would not like to be anywhere else."  "Well you may remain in town, even if you take an estate. If your father wished it I believe it would be very wrong to not fulfill his desire."  "I suppose I will begin looking. Caroline may at least keep house for me until I marry, which I hope will be soon."  "Bingley take care about marriage. My father was 30 before he married. You have plenty of time to marry. I am in no hurry."  "Well my father was 21. I am in no hurry. But I so like the company of ladies that I think it would be nice to have one about always."  "Then I would suggest, if you wish for a companion who adores you, get a dog. They have shorter life spans and they are at all times far more agreeable."  "You dislike women Darcy?"  "Not at all. But marriage is serious."  "Everything with you is serious Darcy. Well I cannot be so serious, so I must leave that to you and I will be flippant for both of us." Thus that thread of conversation ended and Darcy and Bingley spoke about more manly topics like politics. 
		 Chapter 3:--Union with the Fairer Sex Now we have talked of men and marriage and thus we proceed to what some call the fairer sex. If the narrator may speak of her humble opinions, I am greatly in doubt of the veracity of calling women 'the fairer sex’. The particular woman, in question, is none other than Bingley’s little sister. However, at the age of nearly 21 and being quite tall, she cannot be said to be little. She is a young woman of considerable inheritance, thus making her attractive. However, she is also in possession of, some limited beauty, considerable taste, substantial intelligence and amongst close acquaintances a razor sharp wit that amuses. Though it must be stated that wit comes in many varieties and Miss Bingley’s has occasioned pain in more than one quarter and extended more than one family quarrel. This aside, the young woman has all that any young lady could think essential for fulfilling her feminine longing for lovers. It may not be the object of every young woman’s life to obtain and rich and important husband, and it was not Miss Caroline Bingley’s sole objective. Now Miss Bingley [hereinafter Miss Bingley because it is proper and right to refer to her as such] is a woman of ambition not for her own sake but for that of her family’s. Her father had worked very hard to achieve consequence for his children and she was determined not disappoint him, though he lay in his grave and could be disappointed by no one. She wanted to marry, as had her sisters, a fashionable man of consequence, and it would not hurt if he were also handsome. However young, Miss Bingley was no fool; she was also determined that he be admirable and intelligent, for Miss Bingley was intelligent and could not abide the witless or indolent. Her husband must be a man for which others would have a high regard. As of yet Miss Bingley had not found a man who met her needs but she was certain being young and only out three years that this man would show himself in due course. She did often reflect that it would be best if he were to show himself soon, for she wanted to meet him while she still retained the bloom of her youth.  Miss Bingley sat in her London parlour and stitched with her sister Mrs. Hurst. "Louisa [this was Mrs. Hurts’ Christian name. Though it be fitting for use between sisters it is not so fitting for a narrator and thus she will be in my hands always Mrs. Hurst.] Do you suppose that Charles should be spending so much time at that club he has joined?"  "All men have their clubs my dear. I think Stacey would die without his."  "But heaven knows whom he shall meet there," Miss Bingley worried. For although she had a wide circle of friends, few belonged to Bingley’s club.  "It is Stacey’s club and I am sure he never encountered anybody unsavory," Mrs. Hurst assured her sister "No," thought young Miss Bingley in a bitter tone "Stacey can meet no harm being always dead to the world. The only way he’ll get hurt is if some other hunter mistakes him for wild boar and shoots him."  "Caroline you worry too much about Charles. He is able to care for himself and you."  "But what if he should meet with a scoundrel. We would never know."  "I am sure Stacey would not allow that. Now tell me what proverb I should use for this new design I am trying. It is quite small and I will need a short one."  "How about "All the world suffers a fool""  "That is hardly appropriate Caroline." Mrs Hurst snickered, though she was not sure at what.  "How about the meek shall inherit the earth."  "Perhaps you could have Charles host a dinner for some club members and their wives. Then you may meet them and even make some new acquaintances."  "That is a wonderful idea. I will ask Charles this evening." Though she said 'ask' Miss Bingley rather told her brother of the idea which was now a full fledged plan with proposed entrees, dates and number of guests. Being easy mannered with a fondness for distractions and being most of all a loving brother, Bingley assented and gave much thought to which gentlemen would be invited. Darcy obviously topped the list.  Darcy accepted the invitation with both interest and equanimity, as he is a steady and kind companion. He even helped Bingley plan a suitable list of guests. Bingley being a very worthy and diffident friend was eager for Darcy to point out which men were most suitable. "And of course I am looking forward to introducing you to my sister."  "Have I not already been acquainted with Mrs. Hurst?"  "Yes and she and Hurst will be invited. I meant my younger sister Caroline. The party was her idea and I think her a very suitable hostess."  "Then I shall be eager to make her acquaintance." Bingley left Darcy to go home to his sister and help her plan. Darcy was quite eager to meet the sister. Mrs. Hurst seemed a very agreeable woman, much like her brother. He hoped Miss Caroline Bingley would be similar. 
		 Chapter 4:--A Dramatic Pause in our Tale Darcy soon went home to see his own sister who was in London under his watchful eye and that of her cousin’s. Both men had the task of being her guardians. Miss Darcy was in the first few months of a broken heart and a most melancholy temper. Really, she was not as bad off as Darcy supposed; but men rarely understand the hearts of their mothers and sisters supposing them to be simple and pure without passion or desire. Mr. Darcy in this case was lucky enough for his sister’s heart was rather simple and pure. Miss Darcy had months before secretly consented to a union. The plan was quashed and Miss Darcy now realized she foolishly mistook cordiality for love. The lover convinced the young lady, to disregard all that she had been taught for this trifling little emotion. After the troublesome event, Miss Darcy had a revelation, and was most surprised to find she felt no pain or loss in seeing her lover go. All her affection had abated once he was absent. Her melancholy resulted only from knowing that she had worried a brother she esteemed and had done something shamefully wrong. But enough of this dramatic tale, Darcy has to dress for dinner with his relations and thus we must leave him to the peace an privacy a man deserves under such circumstances. 
		 Chapter 5:--Crystal, Conversation and Coq au Vin I could recount to you the hum and drum of party conversation held at the dinner table of an Earl and Countess, but that it really far less interesting, dear reader, than you might suppose. Earls and Countesses talk as consistently and cleverly about marriages, babies and the weather as any other dinner hosts. Only the guests of an Earl will eat on finer china and cut their food with more expensive flatware. Having told you this, there is nothing else of note to tell about Darcy’s evening at the home of his aunt and uncle. I take you instead to an event much planned by the Bingley household. You may wish to be kind to the young hostess for she worked tirelessly ensuring that her home was acceptable and impressive. Servants darted between the various rooms ensuring that every item was where it should be and every tray was waiting polished and ready. Still, Miss Bingley felt it necessary to give three separate sets of identical instructions to her staff; she worried they may forget to use the larger bowl for the salad and the smaller for the carrots. Having no tolerance for the heat of a kitchen, Miss Bingley left and went to instruct the parlour staff about the arrangement of the card tables and tea things. As the appointed hour approached, she went to her room to dress and ensure her hair was well arranged. She stared in the mirror at a well-proportioned nose and the elegant dark curls that framed her face. She was entirely pleased that she looked more than merely acceptable and dusting off her skirt she descended the staircase to pause again at the hall mirror and reassure herself that she looked presentable. Miss Bingley then swept through all the rooms straightening chairs, pillows and pictures making sure everything was perfect. She stopped last at the dining room and looked at the card settings. She made some last few switches and went to the parlour where she joined her brother, who sat sipping whisky. "Oh Charles, what would papa say if he saw you drinking that stuff."  "Pour me a glass son," Bingley joked in a deep voice.  "He would not. Father only drank sherry. You will smell awful when the guests arrive."  "I might smell a little of whisky which many men drink, my dear. Why are you so nervous? This is not exactly the first dinner we have hosted."  "Oh I am just excited to meet all these new friends of yours, Miss Bingley smiled as she warped her arm around her brothers. "I hope to make a good impression. Louisa tells me many of them are very important. It seems you belong to a very prestigious club. I hope they will like me."  "I am sure they will. Caroline you know very well that you can please when you want. Is there anybody you ever wanted as a friend that you could not win?"  "Oh Charles, you are such a silly fool," Miss Bingley laughed and smiled widely knowing her brother spoke the truth. Having heard this, she relaxed entirely and ceased fretting about the guests.  Mr. and Mrs. Stacey Hurst were the first to be announced and were greeted with more formality than a sister and brother would otherwise receive. "See Louisa. There is no one here. I could have had another half an hour yet," grumbled Mr. Hurst. "Oh my dear, I could not leave Caroline here to greet her guests alone." Mrs. Hurst pouted and purred soon reviving some sentiment of pathos in her husband as he sat down to a drink. Soon a flood of guests arrived each announced with due respect and attention. The Bingley home was filled with lovely people having lovely conversations about all the lovely aspects of their lovely lives. It short the dinner was very well received. Admiral Hastens told a marvelous story about his fleet being nearly cornered on the West African coast, but luckily, a storm forced a delay in the attack and by then his ships had maneuvered their way into a safe position. Lady Eugenia was the centre of all gossip with her new parish curate in tow. Some speculated about their relationship, but this narrator will not go so far as to impute immoral motives to a man of the cloth. Miss Bingley and her brother sparkled in tandem throughout the evening like stars in a dark night. Bingley was all was all charm and admiration for every guest. He listened to every story with greater interest than the one before and brought out the best in all his guests. Miss Bingley was not only pretty but also entertaining, her wit flowed long, and everyone listened and laughed amidst the clinking of crystal.  Mr. Darcy, as usual, spoke eloquently on every conversation he entered. As behooves a steady intelligent gentleman, he spoke only on subjects within the range of his knowledge and listened to every other speaker with interest. His comments were carefully and logically worded and yet they possessed enough grace as to elicit further discussion rather than end it. Miss Bingely was able to match nearly every statement he made with one of her cunning little observations. These remarks were always sharp if not always very nice. Tonight they only amused and never offended. Darcy was surprised to find Miss Bingley different from both her brother and Mrs. Hurst. Her dark hair and slender figure created an interesting contrast against her broader fair-haired brother. Darcy could not remember when he had been so amused by a woman. She was certainly more intelligent than most of the women he knew. She conversed easily about Parliament and her opinions, if not very liberal, were at least not uninformed. She seemed to have a strong command of an audience. She spoke little of fashions, which relieved him greatly. At a quiet moment between witty remarks, she turned to Darcy to say, "Mr. Darcy I know we have been formally introduced but I just wanted to say how glad I am to meet you. Charles speaks very highly of you."  "I am sure he does. He perhaps a little too kind."  "Yes he is very easy, but in your case I am sure my brother was very accurate in his praise."  "That is a very kind compliment Miss Bingley and I cannot deny it because I do not know what he has said about me."  "Only that he very much relies on your opinion and that you are the sharpest and most rational thinker he has ever known."  "That is a compliment indeed. I appreciate his good opinion."  "It is nothing. I must admit Mr. Darcy it is I who am grateful for your advise to Charles."  "I cannot imagine why."  "You are too modest. Charles has told me you have encouraged him to find an estate. It was the great wish of our father and now he has stopped procrastinating."  "I hope it will be pleasant purchase."  "Yes as do I. But I must beg a favour, though I have only known you for a few hours."  "I would be happy to oblige if I am able."  "You must not abandon Charles at this stage. He must have some guidance in choosing the location. I am afraid I know nothing about such matters and would be no assistance to him in that regard. We have no relations whom I would trust with such an important matter."  "I cannot imagine I will be much help Miss Bingley. I have never made such a purchase. I received my home in a more traditional manner."  "Oh Mr. Darcy," replied Miss Bingley tapping him lightly with her fan, "you are far too modest. Charles has told me you have a handsomely run estate. I am sure, with such duties so well managed, you will know a good estate from a bad one."  "If your brother feels fit to ask my advice Miss Bingley I will give him all the assistance I know how. I cannot promise more."  "You are a good man Mr. Darcy. I can see already you will be a very good influence on Charles." Darcy received these smiles with the pleasure most men feel towards such tokens. Miss Bingley was very entertaining. She spoke well, looked well and played well. She was everything a young lady should be and Darcy could not help feeling she had an uncommon amount of understanding to add to these attributes. He knew she sought to please and his opinion she succeeded. But as a steady man we cannot pronounce him in love because he found the sister of his friend intelligent and talented.  When everybody had gone, Miss Bingley and Bingley were exhausted. The two huffed and sat down in the parlour side by side, hands clasped admiring the empty card tables and their triumphant success. "Everybody seemed to have quite a good time Caroline. You are an excellent hostess."  "Charles I cannot take all the credit. This club of yours is filled with very excellent people. I had a wonderful time."  "Did you have a chance to speak with Darcy?"  "I did and you know I told him I thought he would be a very good influence on you."  "Caroline you have a very poor opinion of me."  "Not at all Charles, I think you have very good taste in friends."  "Especially Mr. Darcy I think?"  "Him no more than any other I met to today, except that I may like him more because you like him more."  "Well I think he is a very good sort of man. I very much admire him."  "When you get that estate, he must come for a visit."  "Now you are getting quite ahead of me. Let the servants clean here before you have them moving us to the country." When the last trays were put away and the last of the food was packed up, the servants extinguished the lamps with dread for the next day’s work. For when the master seeks pleasure, his servants always suffer. 
		 Chapter 6:--Rainy Day Prospects Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley sat in a dry parlour as the rain ran against the window glass in thick sheets. "I think we shall never see the sun or any callers, Louisa," moaned Miss Bingley.  "Was anybody supposed to call?"  "Not for me, but Mr. Darcy was to call on Charles."  "And you would like to see him."  "I would like to see anybody. This incessant rain is unbearable."  "What do you think of our brother’s friend? You always have the keenest assessments of people."  "I like him very much," Miss Bingley answered languidly as she played with the lace curtains lifting them slightly to look outside.  "I understand he is very well established."  "He has an estate in Derbyshire."  "Not just any estate. It has been in his family for 250 years and it is very prosperous."  "I don’t think Charles should care that his friend’s estate is old, Louisa."  "Oh Caroline stop teasing me this instant. You know I cannot stand it. I am no match for you."  "I speak only the truth."  "You know exactly what I mean."  "You have aspirations. For myself I cannot know what I feel."  "He looked at you a great deal at the dinner. Surely you noticed."  "Yes, but that may mean anything. Besides, a man does not fall in love with a woman over one dinner party. I am not sure of any regard."  "It would be quite a union, Caroline."  "Louisa, he has never called on me and you are already planning my wedding."  "He has called on Charles though. He may see him at the club, no?"  "I do have some hopes. But I shouldn’t rest all of them on such a man."  "What is wrong with Mr. Darcy?"  "Nothing. But he is very admired and I shouldn’t think I am the only girl who has had these thoughts."  "Well Caroline I am going to be blunt. I have no talent for gilding my advice. Such a man in possession of his fortune without any relations fit to restrict his choice does not cross a girl’s path everyday."  "That was rather blunt. I wonder that you can sleep at night Louisa, speculating as you do. I do like him. He is perhaps the most intelligent man I have every met. He always has some opinion on something and he understands me," she sighed as a mile crept across her glowing face. She soon recollected herself. "But I am not sure of any regard on his part. I believe it is too soon."  "It is never too soon my dear."  Though she didn’t say so, Miss Bingley did believe Mr. Darcy well on his way to loving her. Since that dinner, he had called 5 times in two weeks. They had laughed together and he even felt bold enough to criticize her opinion. Few men dared that level of intimacy. She was not going to boast before she was more certain. There may yet be some obstacle between them she had not discovered.  It was raining over the Darcy townhouse as much as it was over the Bingley home. Darcy sat at precisely the same time looking out his window. The rain would prevent him calling. He was not in the least disappointed. Bingley had another stack of offers and Darcy was in no mood for figures. He instead contemplated a previous afternoon spent with Bingley and his sister. He liked Miss Bingley, but something nagged inside. Darcy did not think her superb, though she did do everything better than most women he knew. She was undoubtedly very entertaining. However, his feelings were nothing like what he had felt in the past. His youthful admirations had been full of desire and passion. As Darcy had been as good and steady a boy as he is now a good and steady man, these admirations had not led to anything, but he remembered them well. There had been the sister of a school friend and she had had these deep green eyes he could not look on enough. However, she did not share the affection, as she was nearly two and twenty. Ignorant of her prospects with her brother’s friend, the lady married a lord in the summer of Darcy’s sixteenth year. He was slightly devistated. It took six whole days of riding and shooting for Darcy to sooth and mend his broken heart. In the place of such emotion was his fondness for Miss Bingley. There was something more; Miss Bingley had the habit of unleashing her sharp wit. Darcy would laugh; they were always humorous, but he felt that he should not laugh. Surely, he should not when they mocked mutual acquaintances. Darcy felt much imprisoned by Miss Bingley’s wit. He admired her talents, but he could not really say he respected her. Being so different from her brother, Darcy was unable to understand that she had none of his amiability. She amused him yes, but he did not crave her company. His feelings were rational and steady. Then who can say what will happen; beginnings are often hard to understand. 
		 Chapter 7:--Getting to Know You Months may pass without with a general flow, but no distinct stimulus. The Darcy and Bingley homes were now quite intimate. They often traveled together between parities and concerts. Bingley’s sister was usually with her brother. Darcy had even introduced Miss Bingley and Mrs. Hurst to his sister during a visit to his estate in Derbyshire. Miss Bingley could do nothing but admire such a quiet creature. Miss Darcy played very well and spoke so mildly. Miss Bingley thought she was the type of girl who could do no wrong and offend no man. In her opinion, it must be a blessing to have such a sweet charge. In truth, Miss Darcy’s greatest attraction was that one quality she possessed that could not be praised. She was Mr. Darcy’s sister and that alone was inducement enough for all of Miss Bingley’s adoration. It only helped that the girl was indeed sweet and very gifted. Miss Bingley, as you may guess already, is now quite along in her admiration of Darcy. She has esteemed him for many months and now is sure he is the best man she has ever known. A wealthy estate is a great attribute to any man, as has been stated, but it was not Darcy’s only attribute. Had Miss Bingley wanted a wealthy man she could have had one in an instant. Many such men admired her, but she boldly brushed them all aside. She would win Mr. Darcy. He, of all those in her life, understood her. He admired her intelligence and she admired his. He was, unlike many in her life, a man of virtue and integrity. She found nothing to mock in his steadiness of temper or intelligent opinions. He was a model gentleman and she was sure he would want her as she made herself the very picture of a gentlewoman. She had all the arts and allurements that were necessary to move easily in society. Miss Bingley knew herself to be a very attractive woman. Now her obligation was to ensure Mr. Darcy knew this without any doubt. 
		 Chapter 8:--Thinking Hard Thoughts It is perhaps that ironic part of fate that moves a man to know he does not love a woman just a she becomes certain of his regard. Mr. Darcy for many months has been attracted to the vivacious Miss Bingley, but one evening sitting not with her, but alone with Bingley, he came to a great revelation. "Darcy you sit so silent tonight."  "Perhaps, Perhaps."  "This is not like you. No rebukes for the audacity of Mr. Creils’ mistress. No criticism of the concert’s arrangement"  "Do you think I like nothing?"  "No Darcy. You just aspire to perfection. I admire that. I cannot be as fastidious. I like the world too well."  "Bingley you say that like it is a bad quality. I will never understand your propensity for laying out what you like most about yourself as though it were your greatest flaw.’  "Well there you are. Tease me if you must, but let there be some conversation. To start you off I must tell you. I have bought that estate we visited in Hertforshire and I intend to go there within the month. I insist that you come and stay. You are as much to blame for my having taken it as I." Darcy apologised for his silence, consented to the invitation and all was better. There was a revelation as Darcy looked at his friend.  In the many months Darcy had been friends with Miss Bingley, he had never known her to make one liberal or kind statement that was not about her friends or a member of his family. In fact, the substance of their conversations mostly revolved around her praising his sister or making some sly condemnation. She did nothing if not well. She enjoyed nothing, unless he liked it. She smiled only at when others were looking. Darcy realized that Miss Bingley was entirely unlike her brother. Not merely in looks, but in behaviour as well. Every quality that he considered good in Bingley was absent from her. Every observation of Miss Bingley confirmed this revelation. Instead of being natural and easy, Darcy now saw how artful and constructed was their whole friendship. It was not that he did not like Miss Bingley. Darcy still thought her amusing and intelligent. Only her attentions seemed part of a very clear plan. She had every quality one could require in a wife, but Darcy found himself unmoved by her arts. Certainly, marriage should not be based only on such an affected friendship. Darcy had never until that very moment even considered pursing Miss Bingley. He had never considered her as anything but Bingley’s charming sister. Now he was either her suitor or nothing at all.  Darcy wondered when he would meet a woman he considered suitable to merit his affections. High standards are not to be mocked. If rational steady men like Mr. Darcy did not have high standards, they would not be able to know when they should begin admiring a woman or when a woman is a deserving and rational choice. An intelligent man would not let himself fancy an inferior woman. I must also warn you dear reader that, just as evil may cloak itself in acts of noble appearance, so may fools masquerade as intelligent people. If you can't bear silly people, I must inform you, any rational member of this tale may turn out a fool. Though one may be intelligent or rational, one can never know what he or she will do when met with a given predicament. It is cruel, to mock our friends when we have the benefit of hindsight. 
		 Chapter 9:--The Woman to Marry Fitzwilliam Darcy The woman to marry Fitzwilliam Darcy, must have a strong head and a good heart. For he was intelligent and wanted his wife to be able to love all those he loved. Some of his relations were harder to love than others. Darcy did not want a wife who would love his relations because he loved them; he wanted his wife to love them because she found in them what he knew to be there – goodness and affability. He especially wanted a woman who would love Georgianna. Perhaps if she had a woman to confide in, she might make a better choice her second time around. Darcy sat silently contemplating his newspaper instead of reading it. "Georgianna do you like Miss Bingley?"  "She is very attentive."  "But do you like her?"  "Yes. She is you friend, is she not?"  "If she were not my friend?"  "How can I think that your friends aren’t worth liking Fitzwilliam?"  "Do you enjoy her company then?" To this pointed question, Georgianna found herself unable to form an answer for many minutes. Darcy asked again, persuading her that it was very wrong to lie. "She is very considerate. But she is always saying how much she admires you, asking me questions and telling me how well I play."  "Is that bad? It sounds as if she is being very kind."  "No, she is very kind to me."  "Then what is wrong with that?"  "Well, it isn’t really fun."  "Fun," Darcy laughed and kissed his sister’s forehead. "She is a woman. Women are a little old for fun."  "I hope I may never be too old for fun. Life would be dreadful without occasion for fun."  "When you grow older Georgianna fun becomes something very different."  "Does she make you laugh?"  "She is very amusing."  "Good. I think that is the best feeling in the world. I am never so happy as when you or Henry surprise me with some joke or gag and I cannot help myself for laughing." Darcy could never remember being surprised by any of Miss Bingley’s comments. What she said never really caused him to laugh; it was more like a chuckle or a smile, but never a full belly laugh. Would it be proper for a woman to make him laugh like he did with his sister and cousins?" 
		 Chapter 10:--Journey to this Rugged Place The journey to Hertfordshire was not so very long, but Darcy was not in the least comfortable sharing a carriage with Miss Bingley for many hours. He wondered why she would not go with her sister, as that carriage was larger. Never ask yourself questions to which you know the answers. It only irritates and Darcy was irritated. As he sat and listened to Miss Bingley, he thought of Georgianna’s observations. Miss Bingley wasn’t really funny. She was more witty. But 'funny’ doesn’t seem to fit in with desire or passion; then he felt none of that either. Now Darcy has already decided he does not love Miss Bingley. She may be flattered to know that, though she will never be Mrs. Darcy, he firmly believes that Mrs. Darcy will at least be similar to Miss Bingley. He believed her in possession of many significant feminine talents. Afterall Miss Bingley possesses all the standard requirements of a fashionable woman; she is cultured, talented and to add to this list she is amusing, if not entirely charitable. Funny is for fools and puppet shows thought Darcy. It is for little sisters and old cousins. However Miss Bingley’s aspirations could not be ignored. Darcy desperately formed a plan to distance himself from her. He had never done anything that could be said to excite speculation. However, now he would be even more cautious. He didn’t love Miss Bingley. He would not be trapped by another's expectations; he would plan his own future as he saw fit. As many men before him, Darcy knew distinctly what he wanted in a wife. He did not know where he would find her, but he was waiting patiently and enjoying his time as a bachelor. Without any idea who would become Mrs. Darcy, Darcy knew she would not be the woman sitting within his grasp.  Miss Bingley’s first remarks were that the estate was so very far from London. She feared for the society they might encounter. "What kind of entertainment should we find in this rugged place, Mr. Darcy?" "I quite wonder myself Miss Bingley." Netherfield, as the newly acquired estate is called, was soon filled with callers and cards. Everybody wanted a look at its new owner. Miss Bingley was not impressed. Dear reader, I will not bore you with the mundane details of introductory calls. The area soon became acquainted with the Bingleys and the family was invited to a local assembly. Miss Bingley feared that there should be no decent entertainment or company beyond her little party. There would be one advantage though; she would shine even brighter against these creatures. Darcy would admire her qualities even more. The assembly had its moments. Bingley enjoyed himself exceedingly; dancing with several young women, including the prettiest one in the room. He made himself much admired with his easy manners and grand estate. Darcy did not want to follow Bingley’s lead. He knew none beyond his own party and he could think of nothing to say to a group of country citizens. They were certainly confident in their ability to please. Darcy found the way their new acquaintances inquired after himself and Bingley obscene. They way they were assured of his admiration for their little gathering was ridiculous. He decided to return home as soon, as was polite.  Other than Darcy’s disdain for his new company, there are several points of interest that occurred. He danced only four dances. He could not escape dancing with Miss Bingley, but was determined that for every dance they had, he would dance one with her sister, Mrs. Hurst. As Bingley was having a marvelous time with his great beauty Miss Bennet, he attempted to induce his friend to dance with one of her famously pretty sisters. Darcy had little fondness for dancing with strangers and no interest in making friends. He assessed her as tolerable but not handsome enough. If she was not wanted by other men, certainly Darcy would not be the man to take pity on her and if she could get another partner so much the better for them both. It is a horrible thing to know that others have seen the worst of your character before you have shown them anything of your merits. However, this may be tempered when those who do the viewing are not worth knowing. With no little mortification, Darcy soon realized the young lady had heard his cruel speech. Instead of being upset or cross, she only laughed. It seemed she laughed for minutes and the minutes felt longer than minutes should. After feeling embarrassed and exposed, Darcy remembered he had not done anything so improper when compared with what he had seen of the locals’ behaviour. Darcy reflected on it no more. He would not be in her society long and he did not care what any of these people thought. Later that evening, Miss Bingley, well satisfied with Darcy’s attentions, proclaimed claimed the whole society vulgar. Darcy could not help but agree with his own wit showing in full force. The young woman, whom he formerly declared slighted, he now proclaimed as eminently overrated. 
		 Chapter 11:--Eminently Overrated It is yet another twist of fate that what we cannot esteem at first we are often are forced to admire at last. No sooner had Darcy proclaimed to everyone he had no interest in any person in Hertfordshire, than did he find himself profoundly intrigued by the lady of his slight. I should now tell you all her name is Miss Elizabeth Bennet; 'Eliza’ to her friends and 'Lizzy’ to her family, but surely Miss Bennet or Miss Elizabeth to Darcy. Though Darcy’s comment was a great insult, it had not troubled her. Well, it had not troubled her much, though she suffered slightly from a bruised ego. Some people possess that rare ability to live free from concern over the opinion of others. Miss Elizabeth is fortunate not only to possess this gift, but also a pleasing continuance, strong mind and a laughing heart. There are few she would want to offend and even fewer she could. She is not only all these things, but she has considerable beauty. Darcy had not only been rude but plainly wrong. Miss Elizabeth is very pretty; not as fine as her sister. However, that is a very unfair standard for women’s beauty. If all women not as beautiful as Miss Bennet are only tolerable, than England, nay the whole empire may claim only thirty or forty pretty women in a given year. Darcy was in Miss Elizabeth’s company often enough to review his assessment. He refused to acknowledge the error but he soon found other aspects attractive enough to retain his interest. She had these eyes, that were not so perfect, but betrayed a mind uncommonly astute and they laughed. Her eyes, they seemed to laugh at everything even when she didn’t smile and she almost always smiled. They were not the generous smiles of Miss Bennet, but wry ones that betrayed enchantment and mockery. It was true Miss Elizabeth said and did whatever she wanted, but that could take nothing from the merit of her eyes. He was determined to think no more about smiles or eyes. Darcy still felt a young lady of little education or experience in the world should not have so many opinions.  In the small village, there was more amusement than Darcy envisaged. No sooner was one party over, than he was forced to another. The parties were unbearable. The speculation was unimaginable. Only a little while in their society and the whole town was convinced Bingley would marry Miss Bennet. Bingley’s unassuming benevolence doomed him to blindness. Darcy knew his friend was amiable but he could not be that foolish. No one could argue the girl was sweet, but Darcy could not bear the thought of Bingley suffering as son in law to the girl’s appalling mother. The woman lacked every quality of refinement. How her daughter developed as she had was, in Darcy’s estimation, one of nature’s little mysteries never to be comprehended by the limited human mind. Such understanding must be reserved to the divine. The other daughters had not fared as well. They were loud, obnoxious, and completely ungoverned by themselves or their parents. Miss Elizabeth was not so ungoverned as her younger sisters but she still showed a sort of conceited independence he could not accept as truly feminine.  As for the younger Miss Bennets, Darcy felt he was unlikely to see such offensive displays in a bawdy house, though as a decent man he had never been inside one. This had no effect on his supposition that it could not be much worse. In his opinion, it was a shame that Mr. and Mrs. Bennet had not exerted more control over their daughters; the girls seemed to have no less potential than most. They ought to have been less exposed and taught to restrain themselves. It seemed a pity they were not more respectable, but then their behaviour had not affected their popularity in Meryton. Perhaps they may yet be settled with relative success.  Darcy spent the evening at Lucas Lodge, as he had spent most of these gatherings, silent. He watched and spoke as little as he could manage. The locals talked so incessantly that he succeeding saying very little. Though this tactic meant he heard more than he wanted. Darcy looked forward to a little musical diversion. It did not hurt that most fell silent and listened. The piece Miss Elizabeth picked was simple and unimpressive and in Darcy’s estimation, she played adequately. True she obviously had none of Georgianna’s discipline, but her song had a cheerful quality. Despite the flawed performance, Darcy acknowledged her voice to be sweet, and as she played he noticed she was pleasantly unchanged by receiving the attention of the room. She played as though she was tinkering privately for her own amusement. Limited flair aside, Darcy thought Miss Elizabeth’s abilities too rough to be truly admirable.  It was at Lucas Lodge, Darcy found himself watching and listening to Miss Elizabeth. She was an object of some curiosity to him. She had something most of the other guests did not, though if you asked what, Darcy would not be able to describe the quality. Perhaps he could not bring himself to admit a country girl with no formal education to be admirable for her understanding. When accosted by his officious host presenting her as a dance partner, Darcy readily consented to the suggestion. This dance was not to be, Miss Elizabeth outright refused. Obviously, she still resented him and he could not blame her, nor did he really regret his loss. He was content to listen to Miss Elizabeth at some distance and not be bothered with the awkwardness of conversing. At least listening and looking took not so much effort as speaking. Miss Elizabeth’s resistance had not injured her with the gentleman, and he was thinking of her with some complacency, when thus accosted by Miss Bingley.  ``I can guess the subject of your reverie.''  ``I should imagine not.''  ``You are considering how insupportable it would be to pass many evenings in this manner -- in such society; and indeed I am quite of your opinion. I was never more annoyed! The insipidity and yet the noise; the nothingness and yet the self-importance of all these people! -- What would I give to hear your strictures on them!'' At this point you may pity poor misguided Miss Bingley, she has unwittingly given Darcy the means of hurting her. He could not ignore this clear opening to correct her course. He did not intend to marry her and he would show it.  ``Your conjecture is totally wrong, I assure you. My mind was more agreeably engaged. I have been meditating on the very great pleasure which a pair of fine eyes in the face of a pretty woman can bestow.''  Miss Bingley immediately fixed her eyes on his face, and desired he would tell her what lady had the credit of inspiring such reflections. "Not yours," thought Mr. Darcy, but instead answered "Miss Elizabeth Bennet." This had the expected affect of completely deflating Miss Bingley; anything she said further was of no importance to Darcy and so is of little importance to us. She may think she can tease him into loving her, but she cannot. 
		 Chapter 12:--Ill Health and Ill Looks Sometimes it is not so much fate as the hand of temporal guardians that affect surprising changes. Spying an overcast sky, Mrs. Bennet sent her eldest on horseback to a dinner engagement with Miss Bingley and Mrs. Hurst, with the hope that her daughter would be unable to return the same way. An illness, providential by the mother’s standard and unfortunate by all reasonable evaluation, forced Miss Bennet to remain at Netherfield. For all Mrs. Bennet’s noxious behaviour, one must admit it is an advantage to have singular desires and a will unclouded by grace. Her daughter would stay until recovered. Miss Bingley was devastated. Days with this girl would certainly encourage an attachment between her brother and Miss Bennet. Did I forget to mention that Bingley is very much attracted to Miss Bennet and that she has no inheritance or connections in the world to offer? Miss Bingley, though owning Miss Bennet to be sweet, is less than pleased with the situation.  Miss Elizabeth arrived the next morning, on foot with her petticoat six inches deep in mud. It could escape no one’s notice, except Bingley. Miss Bingley’s critique was relentless. She would not give the subject up. In fact, she was wholly engrossed in making Darcy see that Miss Elizabeth was as vulgar as the mother. Darcy would not be drawn into such a discussion. He would not satisfy Miss Bingley, even if he did agree it was a little improper. To satisfy Miss Bingley was to encourage her. So instead, he spoke the truth. He owned that he had noticed the mud and that no proper lady would do such a thing, but that he felt Miss Elizabeth only gained allure from the exhibition. Much to his horror, Miss Elizabeth did not return home. He very much wanted her to go, but she would stay until Miss Bennet recovered. That night Darcy prayed for the return of Miss Bennet’s health. A nice gesture, but certainly not a very Christian motive.  Miss Elizabeth and Darcy were not what one would call on friendly terms. He found himself irked by her. Not only rankled but astonished. He could never anticipate her sentiments. He thought one thing, she said the opposite. There were several discussions, some barbs and insults. Not really pleasant parlour conversation, but not what one would call hateful. Miss Elizabeth did not aim to please. In fact, she seemed to aim to irritate. Darcy was at least pleased to have a lady in the house who understood the meaning of subtext. Their every conversation was marked by duality. The discussion which everyone else understood and a private exchange that that belonged to them alone. The lady was perfectly able to defend herself within their secret understanding and the gentleman was satisfied to find a mind diverted by more than his attributes. Miss Bingley may have a gift for flattery, but Darcy now understood his sister’s opinion. It is rather tiresome hear nothing but your own praises and Miss Bingley was outdoing herself in that regard. It was all Darcy could do to restrain himself from the expression of certain obscenities. Her jealousy had become entirely open, which made Darcy wonder if it had sensible cause. Miss Elizabeth was very attractive. Her abilities were rare and Darcy could not remember when he was so entertained. He was interested. Too interested. The horrible mother was reason enough not to be interested. There were many reasons to not be interested. The list could fill volumes. Try as he might during her stay, Darcy could not find one flaw resting in the lady herself. She seemed as near to perfection as one could be. NO, she was not perfection. She was the opposite, if perfection had an opposite that was not flawed.  One evening walking past Miss Bennet’s room, Darcy heard the sisters loudly laughing. Well, Miss Elizabeth was laughing very loudly and Miss Bennet more softly. "Lizzy you must stop I cannot breathe. I am sure I will faint if you go on," gasped the ailing Miss Bennet.  "You must have some entertainment, and I get little downstairs." Darcy had never heard such a laugh. It was not exactly beautiful; it certainly wasn’t delicate. Such joyful noises caused him to pause by the door and grin though he didn’t know the joke. 
		 Chapter 13:--Injustice, She is Blind Being a man who disliked injustice, Darcy attempted flying several white flags from his trench. Each attempt at peace further induced conflict. Try as he might to show he was sorry for having offended her, Miss Elizabeth was determined to misunderstand. It is useless to compliment a woman determined to take it as an insult. He felt she must entirely lack delicacy or feeling, but then she did attend her sister with admirable devotion. Her character was contradictory; he could not make it out. Despite Miss Bennet’s illness, Miss Elizabeth seemed always seized by some secret delight. Her smiles never had anything to do with those that surrounded her. If she was not so easy with others, Darcy might have supposed her to have a solitary nature. Even when Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley deliberately excluded her, she was never disturbed and nothing Darcy could say seemed to encourage her to go where she obviously was not wanted. For that he could not blame her. One fine fall afternoon, Darcy found himself engaged on each arm by two women whose presence was weighing heavily upon his conscience and his patience. When they refused to include Miss Elizabeth on the tour, he was very near asking to join Miss Elizabeth instead, as Miss Bingley would have the company of her sister. Before he could ask Miss Elizabeth, she was gone insisting that they made a handsome group by themselves. Mr. Darcy was ready at that very moment to leave Miss Bingley and her sister in the park. He had seen her do and say many things but he had never thought her capable of blatant offence. Regaining control over his temper, he decided it best not to stir a tempest, as the situation was tense enough for any reasonable palette. He was sure if he went in Miss Bingley would be kinder, but he doubted Miss Elizabeth would prefer Miss Bingley’s kindness over her claws. He had the suspicion that Miss Elizabeth’s wit could better endure spite than her patience could stand such transparent affections. As many times as Miss Bingley tried to make her look the fool, Miss Elizabeth ended the conversation with a glorious smile.  It is fallacious to believe that maligning a rival will do anything to improve one’s position. Petty behaviour can never endear a person to anyone, except perhaps those without decent natures. Not one conversation between Miss Elizabeth and Miss Bingley ended with Miss Bingley looking superior. In one added note, Darcy found in Miss Elizabeth a quality he particularly admires. It is one that is absent from Miss Bingley’s list of attributes namely because it is one many would consider a liability in a lady’s favour - the improvement of the mind by extensive reading. Dear reader I cannot be trusted to think objectively on this matter, but I will venture to insist this betrays good judgment on the part of her dear Mr. Darcy.  After many nights of Darcy and Miss Elizabeth trading barbs and Miss Bingley’s endless witticisms on the subject, the Miss Bennets were ready to leave. Miss Elizabeth especially. She had enjoyed very little of her stay, excepting the fine grounds and Mr. Bingley. Then everybody likes Mr. Bingley, so for that we can hardly declare her remarkable. Mr. Darcy you might suppose was sad to see her go. That was not at all the truth. He triumphed. He wanted her gone. No second was too soon. Contrary to Miss Bingley’s fears he did not regret the loss of Miss Elizabeth’s laughing eyes or pert opinions. He wanted her far from his sight. As if she were bewitched, Darcy believed Miss Elizabeth could hold no more power over him if they parted. He could only describe her presence as dangerous. What exactly was dangerous about a young woman with laughing eyes he could not explain. 
		 Chapter 14:--The Stubborn Conclusion Man can be a stubborn creature. He scorns the unexpected as much as he fears pain. It is not so much a truth as a tendency for people to resist what they have never sought. Darcy was unable to admit the simple truth; he was in love with Miss Elizabeth. His wife must have poise, status, wealth and a myriad of other qualities. Instead, he found himself interested by a virtually impoverished country gentleman’s daughter. She had nothing to offer him. There were no inducements excepting those damnable eyes. Darcy was mystified at himself. He could not believe that his emotions could betray him and allow the contemplation of such an act because he found a young lady surprising or he liked the sound of her voice. However, for all his requirements of a prospective wife, Darcy could not believe them being met and unified in one creature would produce a woman more likely to recommend herself to his heart. For all the lack symmetry in Miss Elizabeth’s looks and her failings of achievement, he found no imperfection. She was an utterly clever and insightful individual. Every quality that could be called a blemish appeared merely as part of her more excellent whole and once Darcy saw the whole, any deficiency in its parts seemed immaterial. He knew she could never be the wife he wanted and yet anticipated a great loss in seeing her gone from his life. He could not permit himself to continue such thoughts and yet he had no power to stop them. Irony is a sweet conclusion.  Planning and rational objectives are all good strategies for life, but nature can have her own designs and woe to the man who tries to ignore what nature has in store for him. She is a heartless mistress. She cares nothing for a man’s plans. She permits his fancy to govern when it should be his mind. However, if life were always rational and men were never fools, then dear reader, ladies like Miss Elizabeth would never find suitors and such ladies deserve good and steady husbands. Nature has blessed Miss Elizabeth with what society did not, attributes beyond mere wealth and training. Nature has given her hope. An unconnected but exceptional woman may always hope she will one day drive a man to the irrational act of loving her not for her prospects but herself. Dear reader you may think for love it is not so bad to end the fool, but Darcy is not the only character to fall. Miss Bingley has suffered this a fate as well. Though I do not think it would be kind to laugh at her. The poor thing has lost everything she gained by her earlier acquaintance with her dear Mr. Darcy, through her double folly of conceit and envy. Where she could have had two friends, she now has neither. I doubt any character will suffer as much as poor disappointed Miss Bingley, whose witticisms have, in the end, caused pain in no quarter but her own. As for Darcy, he may still suffer or he may yet regain his reason. Just because he loves Miss Elizabeth does not mean she has forgiven him. She is a lady not easily moved by society’s expectations. A truly intelligent woman, and Miss Elizabeth is especially insightful into such matters despite inexperience and lack of motherly guidance, would rather be respected on a few hundred than loved on 10, 000 a year. 
		 Chapter 15:--The Epilogue You may wonder what became of Darcy and his unwanted desire for the young Miss Elizabeth Bennet. Though I should not tell you, I will break the rules just this once. What do you call it a spoiler? Darcy was eventually forced to the desperate act of asking for her hand. It was either that or she would slip from his life forever and that his rational heart declared was unacceptable. This resolution was one more forced upon the man than determined by him. She had been selected for him by some means other than his own will. These feelings he could not explain and no longer seemed resolved to ignore, as they were pleasant enough to sink all his opposition. In desperation, he did act and with a less thoughtfulness than a gentleman should have. Dear gentleman readers I will give you some advice about asking for a woman’s hand. Prepare what you will say in advance. If you improvise, you may not be entirely pleased with the results. In addition, never insult the lady’s family; that is always in bad taste. I will tell you Miss Elizabeth got over her dislike eventually, though not before showing Darcy that his wealth was no inducement for her affections. All that is a story you may hear another time, this story is about a time before courtship, a time before marriage.  With my boots and bonnet on, I bid you all adieu . I am for a drive around the park, with my dear mother and father, in a low phaeton, with a nice little pair ponies. They have done so all my three and twenty years when spring draws them back to the country. Perhaps Papa will let me drive.   the end 
		 © 2001 Copyright held by author     