TITLE: Better Acquainted
AUTHOR: Lou
DATE: 1998

		 Chapter I The Darcys and Mr. Bingley quit the inn at Lambton after a short visit. Miss Elizabeth Bennet stood in wonderment at Mr. Darcy's invitation to herself and her relations to dine at Pemberley the next day. Her aunt and uncle were extremely pleased with his generous invitation as well. Mrs. Gardiner's excitement was matched only by her growing preoccupation with the details of the acquaintance between her beloved niece and young Mr. Darcy.  She had noticed Mr. Darcy's countenance when he looked at her niece. His expressions would turn from obvious nervousness, to enamoured introspection. She had determined that Mr. Darcy held a partiality for Elizabeth, but did she dare to call it love? Elizabeth's regard for him was harder to make out. She did often blush and smile, on the times he managed to address her. Mrs. Gardiner sighed, for this business of love was a difficult thing. The meshing of two different persons, into one happy relationship. These two persons seemed so different, yet somehow suited to one another. However, it was evident to Mrs. Gardiner that they would need more time and perhaps a little help if they were ever to become better acquainted.  That evening the Gardiners and Elizabeth dined with two families that lived in the neighborhood, who had been friends of Mrs. Gardiner from her youth. They were generous and upstanding families, and Mrs. Gardiner informed Elizabeth that these people were sensible in their opinions.  Elizabeth delighted in seeing her aunt so happy to be with her acquaintances again. There was much reminiscing during the evening, and Elizabeth was content to quietly listen. As she politely sat, trying to eat her meal, her thoughts kept drifting back to that morning. She was pleasantly surprised with the acquaintance of Miss Darcy, for she appeared to be nothing more intimidating than a shy girl. Elizabeth did see some of the characteristics of her brother in Miss Darcy. She began to recognize that what she may have seen as hauteur in Mr. Darcy, may in fact be more along the lines of timidity.  Elizabeth was startled out of her reverie, by the sound of her aunt's voice. "We had the great fortune of being introduced to Miss Darcy this morning." Mrs. Gardiner was telling her friends.  "Miss Darcy?" One of the ladies questioned in surprise. "How did you come by such an introduction?"  "By Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy himself." Mrs. Gardiner replied.  The ladies looked at one another in great surprise, and Elizabeth felt her cheeks flush at their reaction.  "We are to dine with them tomorrow at Pemberley." Mrs. Gardiner said in innocence.  This was more than the Lambton ladies could bear. They could never have imagined that the Darcys of Pemberley would show the Gardiners and their niece such particular attentions.  "You are very fortunate to have received such an invitation!" the hostess exclaimed. "Such invitations are rarely issued by the master of Pemberley. He is hardly ever at his estate, so I am told. When he is, he has a tendency to keep to himself. We see him in Lambton, but occasionally."  "Is he not a civil gentleman?" Mrs. Gardiner inquired of her friends. "We had been provided with such glowing reports of his character from his servant."  Elizabeth sat motionless, her heart beating fast and her eyes wide in anticipation of a response. They were getting to the meat of the conversation now.  "Indeed he is very civil, he is just very quiet and reserved is all." Came the reply. "He has always been that way...since he was a boy. His father was a very gentlemanly man, very well liked. We always supposed the children to be spoilt by their father, for he appeared to be quite indulgent with them. There are times when young Mr. Darcy has a haughty air about him, to be sure. But he can afford to!"  Laughter pealed from the women, and Elizabeth feigned a giggled as well, not wanting to give away her great desire to know more.  "From what we have seen of young Mr. Darcy, he is very uncomfortable in the company of mothers and their daughters, and well he should be. There is many a young lady who would do anything to capture the heart of the handsome Mr. Darcy, and live as mistress of Pemberley."  Elizabeth twisted slightly in her chair, as her own heart fluttered faster. She had so much to conceal about her intimacy with Mr. Darcy. Mrs. Gardiner took notice of her niece's discomfort during the conversation, which to own the truth had been her reasons for bringing it up in the first place. She had no wish to be cruel, however Elizabeth certainly must see how desirable a young man, Mr. Darcy was thought to be.  "Fortunate will be the woman who captures that young man!" The hostess proclaimed. The older women turned their attentions to Elizabeth, who could not help but blush, however much she tried to disguise it.  "I believe a woman should choose a man she can love." Elizabeth added.  "Of course my dear." Aunt Gardiner reassured her. "Do you believe that a woman could not love Mr. Darcy?"  "No ma'am. I am only stating that two people who choose to marry should do so out of mutual admiration, respect and...love. Not because the man wishes it so, especially since he has no regard for the woman's feelings."  Elizabeth stopped and felt her cheeks flush again when she realized what she was saying. Aunt Gardiner was looking at her in a peculiar manner, then looked away to change the subject of the conversation.    Darcy finished choking down his meal, as Miss Caroline Bingley attempted to enchant him with her own brand of wit and vivacity. Bingley had mentioned at supper to his sisters that they had met with Miss Elizabeth Bennet that morning, and Darcy informed them that the whole party would be dining at Pemberley the next evening.  After the initial disappointed looks exchanged between the sisters, Miss Bingley began to show even more attentions to Mr. Darcy than he could have previously imagined. Unfortunately for Miss Bingley, Darcy thought her to be a tedious woman. Fitzwilliam Darcy's definition of an ideal woman, was so clearly defined by one woman alone, that Miss Bingley could never have a prayer of winning any kind of solicitation from him.  Miss Bingley did her best to downplay the charms of Miss Elizabeth Bennet. The more Miss Bingley criticized Miss Bennet, the more Darcy wanted to be in the company of Miss Bennet. Bingley noticed his friend's growing impatience with his sisters and tried his best to dissuade them from any further attacks on Miss Bennet's character or person. He would have to find some way of maintaining distance between Darcy and his sister during the dinner engagement. A man knew when another man wanted the attentions of a woman, and Bingley could plainly see which woman interested Darcy, and which did not.    The next morning Darcy awoke early and went downstairs to find Mrs. Reynolds. He had tossed and turned all night thinking of the evening ahead. He would see to every detail of the evening himself. Nothing less than perfection would do, for he was to entertain the one person whose opinion mattered to him most.  Mrs. Reynolds followed hard at this heels, so she could make sure his instructions were carried out to the letter. She was by now convinced that young Mr. Darcy was out to make a good impression on a certain young woman, and if it was in her power, she would make absolutely sure of his prospects. She followed him downstairs to the kitchen, and he asked the cook's opinion on just the proper meal to be served.  "I would like you to serve something...distinctive. Not too spectacular, but something...out of the ordinary." Darcy tried to explain with a few timid hand gestures, not knowing if he had made his wishes clear.  The cook and Mrs. Reynolds could not help but be confused, however they took pity on him. The rumors were beginning to circulate within the estate that Mr. Darcy was indeed enamoured with the young woman who had visited a few days prior, and wished to become better acquainted with her. It had become a mission amongst the staff to make sure every attention was paid to the attainment of the young man's success.  Darcy looked intently at the cook. "Well? Have you any good suggestions?" he said with a nervous demand.  "Well..." the cook timidly began. "First, a Salmon Mousse, with an herbed sauce."  Darcy nodded as he shifted his weight from one foot to another, arms folded across his chest.  "Of course sir, there shall be a compliment of fruits, cheeses and breads. For the main course...Dilled Blanquette de Veau."  Darcy's eyes widened in expectancy, waiting for an English interpretation.  "Uh...a delicate dish of sautéed veal in cream, with vegetables, flavored by fresh dill."  Darcy raised an eyebrow as he felt his stomach growl. He nodded for the cook to continue.  "Watercress and spring green salad with a walnut oil dressing...and for dessert, raspberry sauternes." The cook finished and exhaled.  Darcy stood in silence contemplating the menu, as the cook and Mrs. Reynolds watched his expressions closely. A slow smile came over his face and he mumbled, "sounds delicious."  The cook smiled and offered, "I will take the liberty of finding an appropriate wine, I should think something light and delicate, not too dry. Something pleasing to the young lady's taste."  Darcy was taken slightly aback at the reference to the lady, however he nodded his obvious pleasure at the cook's suggestions. Mrs. Reynolds sighed her appreciation and the cook hurried off to make preparations. Darcy looked nervously at the housekeeper. "What now, Mrs. Reynolds?"  "Well, sir. Perhaps I should see the gardener, about flowers for the table and places around the house?"  "I shall go with you, Mrs. Reynolds. I wish to know every detail about this evening." He said with such determination as made Mrs. Reynolds turn her head and grin. "Mrs. Reynolds, I take it that everyone is aware of my desire to impress a certain young woman?"  "Sir...we do appear to have made that assumption." She blushed.  He nodded his head with a slight smile, "I do suppose I could use all the help I can get."  She nodded her consent and followed him down the hallway to the rear of the house, to the conservatory. The head gardener appeared to be waiting for them, and Darcy glanced at Mrs. Reynolds beginning to suspect a conspiracy.  "Sir. We have chosen some lovely flowers, perfect for arrangements. The roses are exceptionally fine at this time, and so are the different small variety of iris, larkspur, lupine, feverfew and there are even some bleeding heart still in the garden."  Darcy looked at the samples of flowers that the gardener had cut. They were all the most delicate and fragrant of flowers, with pale casts of blushing color. "Bleeding heart" thought Darcy, "that is most appropriate."  The gardener gathered them together in his hands for effect, "Like this, sir."  "Yes, yes." Darcy said staring at the mock bouquet. "That will do very well, indeed."  The gardener left to prepare, leaving Darcy and Mrs. Reynolds in the conservatory. Darcy smiled at the faithful housekeeper. "This was much easier than I thought it would be!"  Mrs. Reynolds smiled calmly, not wishing to give any secrets away.  "Mrs. Reynolds, allow me to commend you on showing my guest such special attentions, and for holding my hand through the whole thing. What would I do without you?" Darcy said warmly.  "I do not know sir." She ventured to say with a smile. "Sir, might I take the liberty of arranging the place settings for this evening?"  "If you would Mrs. Reynolds. Please make sure that Miss Bingley and Miss Bennet are seated at opposite ends of the table?" he whispered low.  "Yes, sir." She nodded as she bit her lip. It had been her intention to place the master's young lady as far way from that retched Miss Bingley, as was physically possible. "Might I suggest you rest a bit before tonight, sir. We have everything under control here now, I believe."  "Yes, Mrs. Reynolds. I should like that. I have been very restless the last few days." He sighed. "I do so want everything to go well tonight." 
		 Chapter II Darcy nervously looked back and forth at his valet and Georgiana. His man held out a black suit coat and trousers with a white embroidered vest.  "What do you think, Georgiana?" he inquired, a mixture of worry and nervousness spread over his face.  "I like black on you Fitzwilliam, it is very becoming." She smiled. "You will be darling, dear brother." She giggled at him.  "Darling?" he grimaced. "I do not wish to be darling. Handsome, yes. Manly, yes...not darling!"  She hid a smile from him. "You know what I mean, Fitzwilliam."  "No Georgiana, I cannot say that I do?" he sighed, and put his hand to his stomach. "I do not think I will be able to eat, Blanquette de...whatever it is. I am much too nervous."  "Fitzwilliam, I know this may sound extraordinary coming from myself, but I do believe it would be better for you to try to calm yourself, and not be so nervous. How can you and Miss Bennet become better acquainted if you are so...jittery?"  Georgiana was correct, and Darcy was acting in a manner that he had all hopes of conquering. Why should he be so nervous, when he had taken every precaution to secure a most delightful evening? He wanted Elizabeth to see him as he really was, as he would be should she ever acquiesce to making Pemberley her home as well. He vowed to himself that he would be the perfect gentleman, the perfect suitor...even if on the inside he was perfectly tied up in knots.    Elizabeth took great pains in dressing for that evening. She so much wanted to make a better impression on Mr. Darcy, than the one she had left him with in Kent. She had only brought a few gowns with her on the trip, so she tried her best to choose one he had not seen as often as another. The maid helped her fix her hair and she primped and poked at it when the maid left, trying to fix the little wisps that kept threatening to escape.  "Oh!" she said in exasperation as she made a face at herself in the mirror. "What will he think of me?" Elizabeth was beginning to have a few more self doubts.  "Elizabeth!" called Mrs. Gardiner. "If you do not hurry we will be late!"  Elizabeth took a last look in the mirror and hurried out of the room.    Darcy waited impatiently for the Gardiner's carriage to appear on the horizon. He paced back and forth out on the stoop, stopping now and then to rub a hand over his jittery stomach. Bingley came out and grinned at him, and Darcy stopped pacing, hoping his friend was not also part of the conspiracy.  "Darcy, I shall do my best to keep my sisters occupied this evening." Bingley offered.  Darcy tried to convey a look of surprise, but quickly gave it up. "Bingley, I would be most appreciative of the assistance."  The two men heard the carriage approaching the grounds, and Darcy took a last, deep, calming breath. The Gardiners and Miss Bennet were helped from the carriage and Darcy greeted them, with genuine happiness. He stole a glance at Elizabeth as she shyly curtsied a greeting to him. Every time he saw her, she looked more lovely to him, and the butterflies in his stomach would flutter even faster. Darcy remembered his upbringing and held out his arm to Mrs. Gardiner and they entered the house.  Introductions to the other guests were made, and Darcy watched as everyone, with the exception of Miss Bingley and Mrs. Hurst, greeted Elizabeth Bennet and the Gardiners with genuine delight. Bingley suggested that Darcy give his new guests a personal tour of the house before supper. Darcy smiled at him in willing satisfaction, for they both knew that Darcy was at his best when conversing about something familiar to him.  All present in the room watched as Darcy walked over to Miss Bennet and held out his arm. "May I accompany you, Miss Bennet? It would be my greatest pleasure to show you my home."  Elizabeth flashed an impassioned smile and took his arm. "Thank you, sir."  Georgiana motioned to the Gardiners to follow her brother and she walked along side them. Mrs. Reynolds, who had been standing in a rear doorway, smiled broadly to herself, quite satisfied with the master's performance. Miss Bingley however, pinched a smile and gave a slight huff as she proceeded to follow along behind, until Bingley called out for her.  "Caroline! I should speak with you, please."  She wheeled around red faced at her brother's interference. "Charles! Not now!"  Bingley grabbed her by the arm and pulled her to the side. "You have already seen the house Caroline. There would be nothing to interest you, and I believe Darcy would like to get better acquainted with his guests...by himself."    Although Elizabeth had seen the house only a few days earlier, it appeared more impressive, now that she was being escorted through it by its owner. Darcy took them through a few of the minor rooms, and then down the hallway to the library. The entire house was bustling with servants three steps ahead of them, lighting chandeliers and candelabras. Darcy could hear Georgiana doing her best to entertain the Gardiners as they toured the house, and Elizabeth noticed as he seemed to smile to himself and take a quick look behind them. A servant opened the large doors to the library and Darcy took Elizabeth around the room. She stopped now and then to look at a book or two.  "I remember hearing Miss Bingley refer to this library once. It is as grand as she had said." Elizabeth fumbled to begin a conversation.  "It is one of my favorite places in the house." Darcy managed to reply. "As a boy I would come here, more to climb the ladder and drop a book or two on the floor to listen to the echo, than to read." Darcy grinned as he spoke. "Now it is a place to go, when I wish to get away...to become someone else for a time, or go to a place I have never been."  "A place to dream?" Elizabeth heard herself ask.  "Yes. I suppose it is."  They stood looking at each other for a moment, until the sounds of voices made them each remember that they were not alone. Darcy held his arm out for her again and they left the library, for the front parlor. It was a beautifully decorated room and Elizabeth gasped at the beautiful bouquet of flowers on a pedestal, between two windows. She let go of Darcy's arm to admire them. Darcy watched her as she looked over each flower. She smiled slightly as she tried to discern the fragrance of each one, then something caught her eye. She reached out and held her hand as a backdrop to one of the smallest of blooms.  "How did you find bleeding hearts at this time of year!" she exclaimed in delight.  "It seems that there are still a few in the gardens." Darcy smiled, remembering with relief what the gardener had told him that morning.  She continued to run her open palm behind the string of blooms as she watched them dangle like charms from their stem. "Is it not the most beautiful thing you have seen, Mr. Darcy? Like a fine work of art. So delicate and fragile and willing to please. It exudes happiness and life. You cannot wait until you see it, and when it leaves, you are sorry to see it go."  "Yes, indeed." commented Darcy, however her words brought more to his mind than just the vision of a flower.  Elizabeth looked up at Darcy, and noticed his preoccupation with her. She did not blush this time however, for she was becoming more comfortable in the presence of this man than she could have ever imagined. She was sure she wanted him to notice her, and he willingly obliged her. He realized his present fascination and lowered his gaze, not wanting to impose upon her more than he felt she would allow him.  "There is nothing more perfect than a flower." She mused.  "Would you like to see the conservatory?" he asked with enthusiasm.  She nodded with equal exuberance and they redirected themselves to the south end of the house. Darcy held the door for Elizabeth and she entered the glass structure and breathed in the fragrance of delicate bergamot blossom and jasmine. There was a small fountain in the middle of the room and the path wound around in a circle with a small alcove by the fountain. In the alcove stood an ornate iron table and chairs. Darcy held out a chair for Elizabeth and then he sat in the other.  "This is all loveliness, Mr. Darcy! Pemberley is a grand house. I must admit I have never seen anything like it."  "Thank you, Miss Bennet. Living here all my life has made me comfortable. I am afraid I am guilty of taking this place for granted." He smiled. "It was a very fine place to grow up. It is the assembling of the ideas of many generations."  "Every room seems to flow into another. It is hard to believe that it has been added on to for so many years, by so many different people." Elizabeth wondered as she looked around the spectacular sight. "The ceiling must be thirty feet!"  "Forty-five feet." Darcy pronounced with a grin. "At its peak."  Elizabeth gave a slight laugh at Darcy's proclivity for detail. It rather overwhelmed her that a man with such tendencies for perfection could prefer her company. In that respect, Elizabeth thought less of herself than Darcy was inclined to believe was her just dues.  "Actually, this is one of the newest additions to Pemberley. My father had it built for my mother when they were first married, so she would not mind the long winters here. She loved it in here, and after she became ill it was her only escape, for it became too difficult for her to go outdoors."  Elizabeth listened with warm and caring attention, as Darcy ventured to disclose a bit of information about his parents. She believed she could make out a loneliness in his expression, which she had never been permitted to see before. Georgiana and the Gardiners finally entered the conservatory and Mrs. Gardiner commented to Elizabeth on the star jasmine around the fountain. Elizabeth looked over to see it and Darcy reached down to pluck a blossom from the vine. He gave it to her and she cupped it in her hands and savored its sweet fragrance.  Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner smiled discreetly at each other as they witnessed the offering. Georgiana too was pleased that Miss Bennet and her brother appeared to be getting better acquainted as they passed through each room of Pemberley. Georgiana was sure that with all the rooms there were left to see, the couple would be engaged by the end of the evening.  "Sir." Mrs. Reynolds voice called out from the entrance. "If you are ready, the meal is served."  "Miss Bennet." Darcy claimed his guest to take her to the dining room.    The Gardiners were delighted with the wonderful meal which was served them. Elizabeth was more preoccupied with the man seated to her right, than she could ever be with her food. She happened to notice how far away she had been seated from Miss Bingley and she wondered if it was simply coincidence. Mr. Bingley sat to her left and occasioned to inquire after her sister a few times. She momentarily forgot her own fascination, to concentrate on the gentleman's manner when he referred to Jane. She thought she could see that he still held her sister in high regard, and she saw nothing more between the gentleman and Miss Darcy than a brotherly affection.  Elizabeth ate very little, although she did find the meal extremely delicious. Darcy managed to eat, despite informing Georgiana earlier that he did not think he would be able to. He ate practically everything that was upon his plate, however he had no idea what it was or what it tasted like.  "Miss Eliza!" came a familiar drone which made Darcy and Elizabeth turn their attentions from each other and look towards the disturbance. "You are hardly eating! Do you not find Mr. Darcy's food satisfactory?" Miss Bingley called out from the other end of the table.  Elizabeth flinched at the remark, "Of course Miss Bingley, the food is wonderful. I do not have as much of an appetite when I travel, is all." She tried to satisfy the inane comments of Caroline Bingley.  Darcy felt every muscle in his body tighten as Caroline Bingley spoke. He was beginning to think that if anyone had unfortunate relations, it was Charles Bingley.  "I was under the impression that all the Bennet girls had hearty appetites. I remember your sister's comments at the ball. Something about...Oh, how did it go Louisa...eating so much and feeling fat?" Caroline stopped to snicker with Mrs. Hurst.  Elizabeth felt mortified that her family should be remembered in such a way, but she could do nothing but simply fold her hands in her lap and look down at her plate. Darcy put down his utensils with a clank and sat back in his chair. Bingley could see the look of disgust Darcy was feeling. Had it been in anyway polite to do so, Darcy thought that he would have had Miss Bingley thrown out of his house at that moment.  "Caroline! I believe you have interrupted Miss Bennet and Darcy, who were having a conversation." Bingley frowned at his sisters, and they backed down.  "Miss Bennet." Darcy whispered. "Will you not have a glass of wine. The cook selected it especially for you. I should like to be able to relate back how you liked it."  Elizabeth relaxed again, and smiled at the attention Darcy's staff had paid her. "Yes, perhaps a bit of wine would do me some good."  Georgiana and Mrs. Gardiner made it a point to engage Miss Bingley and Mrs. Hurst in any polite conversation they could think of for the rest of the meal. Mrs. Reynolds let go of the door where she had been waiting for any further instructions and headed back to the kitchen.  "I say the abominable woman!" she huffed to the cook. "She is determined to ruin things for the master!"  "Who?" asked the cook. "Wait! Let me guess...the tall one with feathers sticking out everywhere."  Mrs. Reynolds nodded her head in frustration. "If that woman were to somehow ever become mistress of Pemberley...I should have to quit my post!"  "That is not likely, Mrs. Reynolds. It is clear the master only has eyes for the pretty young woman. She is lovely."  "Yes, she is indeed." Mrs. Reynolds stopped to reflect. "The master shows good taste and judgment to choose Miss Bennet over the one in the feathers."  Mrs. Reynolds and the cook ceased their introspection to bring out dessert.  After the meal, Georgiana performed her duty as hostess and offered the ladies tea in the music room. Darcy quickly stood up and bowed as Elizabeth excused herself from him and followed Georgiana. Darcy started to fret at Elizabeth being in the same room with Caroline Bingley, without his protection. He then remembered that the Miss Bennet he had known in Hertfordshire, had been more than able to hold her own in Miss Bingley's ill-mannered company. Still, he intended to be away from Miss Bennet for as little time as was possible.  As soon as he felt he was able, Darcy suggested the men join the ladies in the music room. Darcy followed his guests into the room and was surprised to find Miss Bingley laying in wait for him. She grabbed his arm and strutted by his side, making sure that Miss Bennet was aware of the attentions Mr. Darcy was showing her. Darcy led Miss Bingley to a sofa, and motioned for her to take a seat. She did so with a triumphant smile, expecting that he would take the empty seat next to her. Instead, he bowed politely and took a spot on another sofa, next to Mr. Gardiner. He was careful to choose a seat which would afford him a good view of Miss Bennet as she played the pianoforte.  Darcy was mesmerized as he listened to her perform, however nothing would prepare him for the performance she would yet give. Miss Bingley, in an attempt to discompose Elizabeth, inquired as to the whereabouts of the militia, and mentioned the odious Mr. Wickham. Darcy thought he could never have a higher regard for Elizabeth than he had already, but when she chose to ignore Miss Bingley's rude comments and show mercy to Georgiana at the same time, Darcy became absolutely bewitched.    All too quickly the evening came to an end. Darcy's heart sank as he heard Mr. Gardiner announce that they must be on their way back to the inn. He quickly inquired as to how much longer they would be in the neighborhood. He was encouraged to hear that it would be a few more days until their departure.  Georgiana gathered her courage, "Miss Bennet, I should dearly like it if we could visit again, before you leave."  Elizabeth smiled warmly at her new friend, "I would be most happy to see you again, Miss Darcy."  "Perhaps you would do us the honor of dining here again tomorrow...if you have no other plans? We could continue our tour of the house?" Darcy jumped on the opportunity.  Elizabeth's eyes lit up and she stole an inquiring glance at her Aunt and Uncle. Mr. Gardiner smiled broadly and nodded his head. "It would be our pleasure, Mr. Darcy. You are most kind."  Darcy flashed a smile so wide that made Elizabeth take in a breath. She could get use to this Mr. Darcy, quite easily. He reached out to escort her to the carriage, and she most willingly took his arm. As they walked down the hallway, she suddenly became overwhelmed at the thought of his generous attentions. She turned her head away, so he would not see the blush that had spread to her cheeks. She looked at the walls as they walked, which were lined with still more portraits of distant relations.  Darcy abruptly stopped short of the door, and glanced at his guest. Elizabeth managed to look over at him briefly, then looked up at a portrait in front of her. It was the likeness of a young man, who resembled Mr. Darcy in appearance.  "This man looks like you." she said faintly, not wanting him to know the real reason behind her sudden distance.  He chuckled. "I suppose there is a slight resemblance."  Darcy tried to look at her face, growing concerned for the sudden change in her demeanor. She managed to compose herself and inquired, "who is the man in the portrait?"  "His name was James Francis Darcy. He was a sibling to my great grandfather. Rather a sympathetic character, so it is said."  Elizabeth was intrigued and wanted to know more of him. "Why is that, Mr. Darcy?"  "The tale goes that James fell in love with a Scot woman. She was impetuous in manner, and instead of devotion to James, she allowed another man to come between them. He never married another, but pined away for the woman the rest of his days." Darcy spoke the last words very low and sorrowfully. He looked over at Elizabeth, "but it is only a story, handed down through generations. I would like to think it were true, however, no one ever wrote anything down to document it."  "That is a shame, sir. I suppose they did not think anyone would be interested in their lives when they were long gone."  "I suppose not, Miss Bennet." He smiled. 
		 Chapter III Darcy walked about the house after everyone else had retired for the evening. He was irritated at the offensive manner of Miss Bingley, as she dared to criticize Miss Bennet once again in his presence. He only hoped that he had done his best to stifle her insults.  He was anxious to see Miss Bennet again. How could he spend another day without her company? He was overjoyed that Miss Bennet appeared to want to become better acquainted, after everything that he had done to secure her disapproval a few months ago. He also wondered that perhaps it was going just a little too well for his comfort. Darcy had a handicap in that he had no confidant. He needed someone to tell him that he thought about things entirely too much for his own good.  After some time he roamed down to the kitchen and found the cook and Mrs. Reynolds finishing up their duties. They were still discussing the master's young lady when he walked through the door. They abruptly stopped and greeted him, a little embarrassed that they had almost been caught at their gossiping.  "I wanted to compliment you both on the meal. It was very good," he shyly said, glancing down at the floor and fidgeting. "At least I was told it was good, for I do not remember eating it."  The cook and Mrs. Reynolds tried not to appear amused with his distraction and blatant honesty.  "Oh yes...I almost forgot...Miss Bennet was indeed impressed with the wine."  "Thank you sir. Will there be anything else?" Mrs. Reynolds inquired.  "No, Thank you, thank you both." He turned around to leave, then turned back abruptly. "Yes! There is something else. Miss Bennet and her relations will be joining us again tomorrow night for supper. I trust you have another not too spectacular, but highly delectable menu up your sleeves?"  "We shall manage something...sir." The cook announced.  "Very good." Darcy turned to leave, and again faltered. "One more thing. Mrs. Reynolds I shall be out most of tomorrow. Can you handle all the other arrangements on your own?"  "I believe I can manage it, sir." She replied with a grin as she watched him leave. Neither the cook nor Mrs. Reynolds had ever seen young Mr. Darcy behave in such an uncharacteristic manner. Mrs. Reynolds hoped that the lovely Miss Bennet would put an end to the young man's suffering, and soon.  Darcy walked out into the back courtyard and down the stone steps. It was quiet and the night sky was bright with stars, a perfect summers evening for lovers. Visions of Elizabeth kept invading his thoughts. He remembered as a boy, thinking about the kind of woman he would want to marry one day. The fantasies of an adolescent materialized before his eyes, however he had never believed that he would feel so helpless and unchecked. Elizabeth Bennet possessed a power over his being that he could not explain. At this time in his life however, he did not need explanations.  He had planned to ride into Lambton early in the morning. He would stop at the inn and offer his services as guide to Miss Bennet and the Gardiners on their outing. He would not spend more than a few hours out of Elizabeth's company, and with any luck, she would not want him to.    Mrs. Gardiner decided it was safe to make a few comments in the evening to her husband, on the carriage ride back to Lambton. She praised the spectacular house, and she complimented the fine meal they had been served. Mr. Gardiner commented on Mr. Darcy's fine character and his attentions towards them, and Mrs. Gardiner dared to call him handsome. Elizabeth said nothing the entire time, however with each compliment made by the Gardiners, they could see her eyes light up a bit more, and her lips turn up more and more into a satisfied smile. By the time they retired to their rooms, they were convinced that the acquaintance between Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy and Miss Elizabeth Bennet would soon be more than just a casual acquaintance.  Elizabeth tried her best to fall asleep, but she could not. She laid in the bed and listened to the noises outside the window. She twisted a lock of her hair around her finger and allowed visions of Mr. Darcy to dance through her mind. She wondered what he was doing right then, and settled it in her mind that he was probably asleep. Perhaps he was not, and that he was in the company of Miss Bingley? A pang of jealousy ran through her and she tried to force that thought from her mind as quickly as it had entered.  She hoped she would not have to wait long to see him tomorrow. Perhaps he would call in the morning, but what would be his reasons for doing that? She would just have to wait until that evening, when she could continue to see the rest of the house, and continue to become better acquainted with this most particular man.    Darcy had indeed gone to the inn the next morning, only to find Miss Elizabeth Bennet in a dreadful state. She related to Darcy the information of her sister's infamous elopement to Mr. Wickham. In his shock, he lapsed back into his previous introverted demeanor. All that Darcy could manage to do was bid Miss Bennet good-bye, and slowly closed the door.  Elizabeth stood looking at the closed door trying to maintain her composure, but she then turned around and began to sob uncontrollably. This time however, her tears were not for the well-being of her sister Lydia, but for herself. It was her belief that she would never again see the man whom she had so much wanted to become better acquainted with.    Darcy walked down the stairs to the lobby of the inn. Outwardly he controlled his emotions as he requested his mount from the stable boy. Darcy threw the boy some coins and jumped on the back of his horse without assistance. He reined the animal around and took off in a flurry, surprising the town folk as they watched him speed out of the village, and away from the young woman, whom the whole town was now talking about.  Darcy raced back to Pemberley at a furious pace. He got to the top of the hill, but when he caught a glimpse of the house, he pulled hard on the reins and stopped. He dismounted quickly and let go of the horse, which ran off in the direction of the stables. Darcy began walking, and his anger and disappointment grew with every step. He walked slower and slower until he stopped under a large old tree. Emotion burst forth from his person and he wheeled around with a vengeance and started furiously hitting the trunk of the old tree with his riding crop. He turned around and pitched the crop as far as he could out into a field of tall grass.  "Why? Why now?" he shouted up at the sky. "I have not made the right choices and I suffer for it again! How can I let her suffer as well?"  After he had exhausted himself with such an outburst he sat down hard on the ground, wrapping his arms around his knees and began to shake. He remained in that fashion for some minutes before he could manage his reserve enough to return to the house, and his guests. As he walked past the stables, the servants came running out.  "Sir! Are you all right?" a stable hand yelled. "Your mount returned without you, and we were just about to search for you!"  "Yes, I am fine!" Darcy yelled back as he kept walking towards the house.  As he entered the back hallway, he encountered Mrs. Reynolds and Georgiana, who had just heard about the return of his horse, without its rider.  "Fitzwilliam!" Georgiana yelled and ran to him, but she stopped when she saw the dreadful look on his face. "What is it?" she whispered, almost afraid to ask him.  He could not speak for a time as he looked at her face. He took a deep breath and addressed Mrs. Reynolds. "Miss Bennet and her relations will not be dining with us tonight. They have..." he stopped to swallow his disappointment. "They have urgent family business and must leave Derbyshire."  Georgiana and the housekeeper looked stunned. "When shall we see Miss Bennet again, Fitzwilliam?" Georgiana asked.  "I do not know, Georgiana." His voice shook, and he excused himself, running up the staircase towards his rooms.  Georgiana and Mrs. Reynolds looked at each other sorrowfully. Mrs. Reynolds sadly shook her head and mumbled, "Oh dear?" as Georgiana was left to make some sense of it all. 
		 Conclusion Elizabeth sat back in her chair, as she thought about the last time she had seen Mr. Darcy at the inn in Lambton. She gave a pensive smile at the memory and looked up at the ceiling. She could see the snow coming down in big, wet flakes. She looked around the room and saw the wintry landscape outside. She was warm, and cozy in the conservatory however, and she sighed and picked up her pen again to finish writing.  "What do you do here, wife? Have you taken up letter writing in the conservatory now?" Darcy said as he walked up behind her and gave her a kiss on the cheek.  "No, not letters dear. I am writing down my memories of the time I visited Derbyshire, and you and I became better acquainted."  Darcy sat down in the other iron chair and looked over at the star jasmine wrapped around the fountain. "And what would you write that tale down for?" he asked.  "Someday perhaps, someone may wonder about it. They will walk down the hallway and see our portraits hanging on the wall." She said quite determinedly. "Would you rely on a distant relation to tell a tale of us passed down through generations, without having it documented? Just like James Francis Darcy?"  "Yes." He nodded resolutely.  "They may not get it right, Fitzwilliam." she protested.  "That is true, Elizabeth," he reached down and plucked a jasmine blossom and handed it to her. "But, perhaps it is more romantic that way."  They sat looking at each other for a minute, then Elizabeth smiled. She picked up her story and ripped it up into small pieces.  "I did not have a chance to read it!" Darcy exclaimed as he watched her destroy it.  Elizabeth threw down the pieces of paper and picked up the jasmine blossom, cupping it in her hands and savoring its sweet fragrance. "You do not have to read it Mr. Darcy, you lived it."  ************  the end 
		 © 1998 Copyright held by author     