TITLE: Best Friends
AUTHOR: Nuria
DATE: 2002

		Part 1|Part 2|Part 3| 
		 Chapter 1  Elizabeth raised her eyes from her needlework to look out of the window. It was still raining. She resigned herself to spending the afternoon with her mother and sisters instead of breathing the fresh air outdoors. Her mind was still troubled by recollection of past events.   Four months have passed since that part of my life. Nothing could be the same since that evening. It seems as if I have grown up so much, a little worn by experience.   The situation with Mr. Collins had been a matter of small importance that she had dealt with without harm. In fact it had nothing to do with the following events in her life. That aloof, despising man, who had caused the unhappiness of her beloved sister and ruined the prospects of a good friend, suddenly wanted to be her husband!   It seemed to Elizabeth that what could have been be a peaceful coming to terms, if handled with more tact under a completely different circumstance, without thwarted feelings and incorrect behaviour came to be an evening of anger, astonishment, and hurt.   "Lizzy, Jane! Look, Lizzy! Do you not think this green ribbon suits my eyes?" said Kitty.   "Pardon?" said Lizzy, coming back from her thoughts.   "Look." She left her seat and stood in front of Elizabeth showing the ribbon. "Is it not beautiful?"   "...fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen." said Mrs. Bennet almost crying. "Ouch, I've lost count. Please, dear!"   "Do you like it, mamma?" said Kitty paying no attention to her mother's complaint.   "Yes, dear, yes. Sew it to your bonnet." she started to count again moving her lips.   "I shall look beautiful. I wonder if Maria Lucas will like it. Green is not her favourite colour."   "...eight, seven, nine...Ouch!" Mrs. Bennet frowned at Kitty.   "Kitty, please. Do not distract Mother by talking while she is counting her stitches," Jane scolded gently.   The task of removing Lydia's influence from Kitty's character was hard, but worth doing.   Ah, Lydia, I cannot think of you without pain. Elizabeth continued recollecting her thoughts. Then came that letter in which I, while reading the truth of some events, learnt some truths about myself too. I had wilfully misjudged a man, blinding myself to the facts.   I learnt that I had chosen to be prejudiced against him. I, pretending to be a rational and sensible being, behaved like an ignorant, silly girl. She smiled wryly.   Being irrational for love, friendship, sympathy or humanity was tolerable and understandable, but being irrational because one was rejected at a ball was too much. Too much because that was all that had predisposed me against him. It was my defence against him. And then I found more reasons to think ill of him...until he explained so many things in his letter... until I saw the effects of his hand in Pemberley... until I heard him spoken of in the best terms... until we met him there and he was so civil and polite as to meet the Gardiner's and -- most striking!- as to wish his sister to be acquainted with me. But then Lydia's elopement...   How sad, to realise then that I loved him.   That he was the best man she had ever met, she did not doubt. He had saved Lydia's honour although he had left Mr. Gardiner the credit of it. That he had done it mostly because he still had feelings for her was not a fact she doubted. She believed he was constant in his feelings, but   His feelings may remain for a while, or forever. It does not matter because he will never bear to be Wickham's relative. That is something I know very well.   She could only consider whether his contempt for Wickham would be stronger than his love.      The following afternoon Elizabeth went for a walk to avoid a tedious visit by her Aunt Philips. She sat on a large stone, the ground was still wet, and opened the book she had brought with her. It was The Princess of Cleves. She had always been a keen reader and lately she had found that the company of a book was the best way to pacify her mind.   Absorbed by her book, she only stopped when her eyes became weary. Then, looking at her watch, she stood up and went home.   As she entered the hall she heard her mother's voice from the dinning room talking quite loudly:   "...that shall not prevent my asking him to dine here, I am determined. We must have Mrs. Long and the Gouldings soon. That will make thirteen with ourselves, so there will be just room at table for him. I shall ask him when he comes."   Upstairs, she knocked on Jane's door and entered.   "Jane, who is ..." she closed the door and stopped when she saw Jane's gesture . "Pray, are you unwell?"   "No. I am quite well, Lizzy." said Jane in a low voice and not raising her eyes.   Elizabeth did not believe her. Jane seemed to be sad.   She calmly approached the bed, where Jane was sitting.   "Tell me, who is coming? I heard Mother saying something."   "It is Mr. Bingley." She was still avoiding Elizabeth's eyes.   Lizzy had inadvertently found the object of her sister's concern, but she could not help but feel instantaneously happy.   "What good news!" she cried. She felt it was a good sign, and she wanted to share her optimism with Jane. "Jane, are you not pleased?"   "I do assure you that the news affects me with neither pleasure nor pain. I am glad of one thing, that he comes alone; because we shall see less of him. I am a little distressed. Not that I am afraid for myself, but I dread other people's remarks. Besides, our aunt said that he was coming here to shoot for several weeks, so maybe we will not see him at all," said Jane in an attempt to be indifferent.   Lizzy did not know what to make of Jane's speech. It seemed rather indifferent but behind it there was pain.   "Mother intends to invite him to dinner."said Lizzy.   "I do not believe he will dine here. Mother has good intentions, but I suffer when he is talked of and I feared that she would not talk of anything else for weeks after his departure from Netherfield."   Lizzy understood her sister's low mood. Many months had passed since their last meeting. She had not told Jane that she had seen Bingley in Lambton because it could had given her pain, but now that he was coming, and sure as Lizzy was that Bingley would dine with them, it was the right moment to discuss it:   "I recall now that Mr. Bingley visited us at Lambton. Did I tell you? It was a very short visit, but we talked amiably. He complained that he had not seen you since the 26th of November." That was said in a tone that did not give the matter its significance. However, the comment was important enough to draw Jane's attention, and she blushed a little.   "Still, he is a friend" she said softly, looking at the ground, "and I shall be glad to see him if he decides to come". Jane was not in the mood to ask Lizzy why she had concealed this small but capital piece of information. She had enough to consider with her own thoughts and feelings, and those of Bingley.   "When are we to expect him?" Lizzy was pleased by her sister's subtle change of mood.   "He arrives at Netherfield this Wednesday, on Thursday at the latest." she said with some anxiety in her tone.   Lizzy looked at Jane with tenderness. She saw happy prospects in her sister's future, but now Jane was suffering, uncertain of his feelings and quite disappointed by his absence. She sat beside her and hugged her. Then caught Jane's eye: "As you said, he is a friend."   Later, lying in the bed, she could think more about it.   Bingley coming to Netherfield. That must have something to do with Darcy. I told him about Jane's feelings and he must have persuaded his friend to come back and continue the relationship.   Charlotte was right. Jane's decorum in love deceived Darcy and surely Bingley too. Darcy was not to blame when he thought Jane did not love Bingley. In fact, Darcy and Jane are similar in some ways, because I never suspected him to be in love. He was disdainful at the beginning... but then he showed himself to be eager to talk and walk with me. And he stared at me all the time.   She could not help a deep feeling of loss and love when she imagined his look. 
		 Chapter 2  It was the third week of September and that they were going to Netherfield was settled. The reason of his going there was only to accompany Bingley or that was what he said to his friend, to whom he had not yet opened his heart.   Darcy was in London. He was sitting in an armchair with a book in his hands, but it did not engage his attention. He was deep in thought.   Darcy had received the sudden appearance of Elizabeth at Pemberley as a sign.   At Rosings he left without any hopes of seeing her again, their paths would never cross again. That summer day, he was not expected at home and she was supposed to be at the Lakes, but they had met by chance. The meeting wiped away his gloomy feelings. It could be a fresh start, or a chance to mend his mistakes and lessen her poor opinion of him.   He did not resent the past and decided to work for the future. He showed civility and introduced Georgiana to Elizabeth, expecting that a true friendship would start. Suddenly they had to part again when Elizabeth recieved the news of Lydia's elopement, but he decided to do everything possible to solve the problem. And now, Lydia was married to Wickham.   It is strange how one's emotions work. He is the last person I wanted to be connected to by family ties... until now. It amazes me how little his being Elizabeth's brother in law matters to me. In April, I disdained her low connections. Her reproaches were just and I have changed. Now I realise she is the only connection I desire. I wonder what would she think of me if she knew what I had to do with Lydia's wedding. She would think I was intruding upon her family's affairs. Anyway, I do not want to oblige her to thank me. I did it to relieve her pain, not to be thanked. But I must not fear that, for Mr. Gardiner agreed not to say a word.   He sighed, and looked at his book. How many times have I read that line? He smiled and continued with his thoughts.   How quickly Bingley agreed to spend some time at Netherfield! I only mentioned that it could be considered uncivil not having returned to the neighbourhood. I am glad his sisters are not coming. They would get in the way. I must see if Miss Bennet is still in love with Bingley, which I suspect to be very likely, as Elizabeth said. Moreover, I shall see Elizabeth. I need to see her and judge whether I might ever hope to make her love me.   "I had not known you a month before I felt that you were the last man in the world whom I could ever be prevailed on to marry."   He closed his eyes to banish those painful words from his mind. He took a deep breath and tried hard to concentrate in his determination to find some hope and avoid thoughts of fear.   All is lost if I let the fear of defeat rule me. 
		 Chapter 3  Four days later he was standing in front of the full-length mirror in his room at Netherfield. He was quite anxious. He looked around, sure that he was forgetting something. He went through the writing desk and the bedside table. He searched in the drawers but it was not there. Then he felt his pocket and it was already in its proper place. It will only be a short call. I am going to observe Miss Bennet's feelings.   Nay, he was going to see Elizabeth.   He went downstairs to the drawing room, where Bingley was waiting for him.   "There you are, at last!" cried Charles. They went outdoors. "It was a good idea to come. The air of the Hertfordshire is very healthy. I feel quite at ease here."   "I am sure you do." beamed Darcy.   Bingley looked the horizon and said, "Well, let's visit our friends at Longbourne."   They mounted their horses and rode to Longbourne. As they entered the paddock and rode towards the house, Darcy felt his heart beating wildly.   They were shown into the room where Mrs. Bennet and her daughters were.   The next half hour was spent by Darcy and Elizabeth in a way that would discourage the most spirited. They both felt quite shy with each other.   The entire burden of conversation fell on Mrs. Bennet, Bingley and Jane's shoulders. Mrs. Bennet used all the civility she knew (some of which seemed quite uncivil to Elizabeth), and Bingley was very happy to see his friends again and stay a few weeks at Netherfield. He was very happy to see Jane again and made the decision of staying until November at once. Jane was very amiable but her speech did not flow as usual as she was very happy and moved. Kitty only listened and Mary did not even do that.   Darcy and Elizabeth were too embarrased to talk and equally grave and silent. They only spoke a few words about the Gardiner's and Miss Darcy.   Darcy and Bingley accepted an invitation to a family dinner on Tuesday at Longbourne and then they left.   Back at Netherfield, Bingley was able to share all his high spirits with his friend. They sat in a bench of the Netherfield garden.   "Now I realise how much I enjoy the company of the people of this neighbourhood! I intend to stay here untilNovember." he had the pleasure of saying it aloud. "Will you stay with me?"he beamed.   "I was supposed to stay only a few days." said Darcy in a soft voice. In his ride to Netherfield, Darcy had not decided what to do. His first intention was to stay for a week and then leave Charles but he must had known that his friend would not hear of staying without him.   "I know that you do not enjoy shooting very much, but the weather is still fine and we have friends here that we have not seen for many months." said Charles, obviously speaking of his sweet Jane.   "I am not sure. The weather must change, it is autumn." he said, avoiding the subject of the neighbourhood.   "Besides, I have to make use of Netherfield, or what did I hire it for?" he blew away an ant that was crawling up his breeches.   "Yes, you are right." Darcy could not say a thing against the sense of that.   "Besides, should I stay here all alone and you at London all alone, too, when we could be here riding or fencing instead?" he knew how to be persuasive. "Or going mushrooming, if we want to?" they laughed.   But still Darcy found a gap to escape. "Until November is too long and I must stay with Georgiana, who is in Pemberley." he said in a concerned tone of voice.   "Is she not with Mrs. Annesley until Christmas?"   "Yes, she is, but I want and must devote more time to her. Lately I have been thinking that she is too young to be so alone." He said this feeling very guilty.   "That is the perfect plan, then! She must come here and met the Bennet girls. She knows Elizabeth already. And she will love to go mushrooming with us!" Bingley's good humour had unquestionably won this time.   It could be good for Georgiana to have the company of young girls, not only Bingley's sisters or Mrs. Annesley, so Darcy said that he would go to London to talk with his sister.   Darcy had also agreed because he felt that he owed Charles a debt for having moved him away from Jane, but he was not sure if he could cope with so long a stay if he had to see Elizabeth showing indifference every day.   Then they went to their rooms to change their clothes and while Bingley daydreamed of Jane, Darcy relived the visit from his own point of view.   She was so silent today. I thought she would talk to me.   We were not seated close to each other, but we could have talked more.   Perhaps she was indifferent?   I hope she was only too surprised at seeing me and that made her feel shy. That must be the case.   Maybe she is embarrassed at having told me of Lydia's elopement. I am sure she thinks it was unnecessary to tell me because eventually they were married. Well, I will not say a word about it lest she feels uneasy.   Anyway, I must be more eloquent or she will think that I have lost all interest in her.      She was astonished at his coming, but far more surprised by his behaviour.   He was more eloquent in Derbyshire. It vexed her. Why, if he came only to be silent, grave and indifferent, did he come at all?   She was very frustrated. If she had known that he was coming she would have thought of something to talk about or an excuse to approach him, in case he was sitting far from her, as had turned out to be the case. She blamed herself for not being able to engage him in conversation. She had only wanted to be near him, to be agreeable and to spend some precious minutes with him. She missed very much the man that she had met in Derbyshire and that she had ignored at Rosings and Hertfordshire.   Why could he not be more amiable? If he fears me, why did he come here? If he no longer cares for me, why is he silent? Teasing, teasing man! I will think no more about him. In fact, she feared the answers to these questions. She feared that all the things she said that night at Hunsford could have made his love diminish. She had not apologised to him, which she now very much regretted. Despite her resolution, her thoughts continued as she walked, analysing the situation.   Maybe he has decided not to encourage me into love. If it is the case, it is too late for me. How sad it is.   I have wounded him too much and he has tried to overcome it but the weight of my words must be unbearable.   I have not thought ill of him since he explained everything, but I have not told him, and my words were too horrible. I should apologize, but we would never be able to be at ease at each other's company.   Must I tell him how much my thoughts, opinions and feelings have changed? Would it not be a straight declaration of my feelings? Would not it be improper?   Am I able to talk about them? Would he regret or resent hearing them?   She could not come to a conclusion that did not give her pain.      The anxiously awaited Tuesday came and the meal took place. It was a happy day for Charles and Jane. They sat together at the table, they talked, laughed and played cards together. Charles could see that Jane was the same as he remembered and recovered a happy mood that he had not felt since his departure from Netherfield. Jane grew in confidence and she no longer feared his company. She hoped to see him frequently. Still, she denied her feelings to Lizzy pretending to think of Bingley only as a good friend.   On the other hand, Lizzy ended the day in very low spirits. She was happy to see Jane and Charles draw closer in every way but it was the only pleasure of the day. She had waited anxiously for Darcy. She was determined to be amiable and enjoy his company, but they sat far from each at the table. She hoped to engage him in conversation later, but as she waited in the drawing room for the gentlemen, her impatience soured her mood and in any case, when he came in, it was impossible for him to sit near her. There was a ray of hope when he came to bring his coffee cup but it was wasted. She was so fatigued by her ill mood that she could only think of one topic to talk about, not realising at that moment that they had talked about it during his first visit. She was not able to say anything more, she waited in anxiety for his words but one of the girls began to whisper to her, so he went away. Then, her heart sank when they sat at different tables to play cards.   The only thing that gave her hopes was Jane's relationship with Bingley. The rest of the events of her evening were disastrous, and she was disappointed as she considered them.   How unlucky! All of the day's possibilities were completely wasted. It was impossible to speak at the table and during the game. Asking about Georgiana again wasted the only moment I did have. Oh, how silly! I was unable to think of anything else! He must think I do not have the slightest interest in him, or that I was avoiding his company! Oh, this could be very, very sad. What was the use of his standing by my side without uttering a sound? I cannot understand that! I thought that he came to me looking for conversation. Why silent! Why!   She spoke to Jane about Bingley with cheerfulness, but as Jane insisted in telling her that he was only a friend, she left her sister with a little annoyed, more due to the days disappointments than to Jane's pretended indifference towards Bingley.   The further the carriage was from Longbourne, the more Fitzwilliam Darcy became angry with himself.   Incredibly stupid! How can I give her offence standing there without saying anything?   He hardly heard what Bingley was saying about the pleasant day they had had at the Bennet's.   At dinner, Charles realised that his friend was too silent and pensive, but when he asked, Darcy just told him that he was tired. He retired to his room early and there he reflected on his behaviour, that to his frustration, he found incapable to justify.   I cannot believe what I did. I had every intention of engaging her in conversation, but I did not. Elizabeth must think I am a stupid and useless acquaintance. The dullest man. She is one of the most lively and intelligence people I have ever met, both among men and women, and she must think that I am boring and depressing. I just cannot believe it.   I was determined to be agreeable. My resolution left me and I gave way to a reserved mood when I was among so many people. Yet I managed to have a conversation with Mr. Bennet about the war in Spain. I realise now from whom she gained her wits.   If only I could be as I was in Derbyshire. However, there I was among my friends.   I spent all day desperately waiting to be with her and when it comes, the only thing I give her is an awkward silence.   But he did not realise that it was his anxiety what was ruining his determination of being pleasant company, because while his mind arranged how the encounter should be, his passion lurked behind, aching for its object. Then, when the moment required most his mind to be sociable he was overwhelmed by the long desired feeling of her closeness, making him reserved. 
		 Chapter Four  The gentlemen spent the next two days shooting, riding, and visiting other acquaintances in the Hertfordshire. However, Bingley was the one who took the most of the pleasure from these activities. Darcy's mood was low: he longed to see Elizabeth but he could not see her until after his return from London, as he was leaving the following morning.   The night before Darcy's departure, Bingley decided to amuse his friend. He was aware of his gloomy mood and wanted him to share his cheerfulness. Darcy was thoughtful again.   They were sitting in front of the fire enjoying a quiet port. Bingley broke the silence: "Darcy?"   "Hmm?"   "Do you like this wine? "   "Very much."   After a few seconds he said: "And did you like the dinner?"   "Yes. Very much. Why?" he retorted.   "Darcy, you have used my best inks, you have ridden my best horse and you have eaten my best duck."   "Sorry, but you do not keep ducks," Darcy rejoined playfully   "That has nothing to do with it." he teased. "You have also drunk my best port. I try my best to bribe you, but you still keep your worries to you. Share them with me! I need some concerns to counterbalance my happiness."   Darcy smiled. "Your moods are very well balanced, indeed. It would be an error to change them." he said.   They were silent for a moment. Then Bingley said "Seriously Darcy, what is the matter? I know you."   Darcy took a deep breath and said "I was going to tell you now, before you asked what I think of your port."   "Then, proceed, my friend. You have my complete attention," he beamed.   "I am almost sure that Miss Bennet loves you," he paused to consider what he was going to say. Bingley stared at him, mouth slightly opened, amazed. It was not the kind of confession he was expecting. Darcy went on: "I have been giving the matter my attention." He paused again.   "Well, it is too soon to tell." Bingley was a bit embarrassed. "She has been far more than agreeable, and I think she sees me as a good friend, but it is too soon to tell."   "You are very humble. You overlook your good qualities." He went on: "I am very sorry to say that last autumn I made the very sad mistake of thinking that she did not love you."   It sounded like an apology, and Charles was puzzled: "Well, it was just your opinion. There is no need for you to be sorry."   "On the contrary, there is every need for me to be sorry. Did you know that Miss Bennet was in London for three months last winter?"   Bingley was astonished: "It is not possible. Either she or Caroline would have told me. I should have known." he was frowning.   "I knew."   "You knew? At the time?"   "Yes. Moreover, I am very ashamed to say that I purposely kept it from you."   Bingley looked at him directly in the eye waiting for further explanation, getting angrier with every second.   "I was so absurd as to think that you were going to propose to a girl who did not love you and did not had relations equal to yours. My interference was absurd and impertinent. I am very sorry."   "You must be very sorry! I missed three whole months with her in London!" he was equally astounded and angry. He left his armchair and paced about the room. "What is it about her relations? I do not care about her relations! You told me what you had against them and it was only nonsense!" He stopped to face Darcy. "She was not good enough for me, was she? She is not rich and her aunt is not a Lady!"   Darcy ran his hand through his hair, very ashamed. He forced himself to look at Bingley, to take all that was his due.   Bingley poured another glass of port and drank it. "Tell me, Darcy, was it for my welfare or for your pride?"   "It was for your welfare, although my pride blinded me. I am very sorry. I did not mean to hurt you. I was only thinking of your happiness, but I usurped a power of decision that never belonged to me." Bingley was pacing again about the room. Darcy swallowed. "I will understand it if you tell me that you do not want me to come back to Netherfield," said Darcy quietly, fearing that this would be the case.   Bingley, instead of answering this, asked: "Did you see her in town or did someone tell you?" As Darcy hesitated a moment, Bingley spoke again, looking through the window. "It was Caroline who told you, I am sure. She and Louisa must have known. Every time I asked about their correspondence with Miss Bennet, they said that their letters were not answered. I knew Miss Bennet enough to think that she would never do that, so I did not know what to make of it. I thought she had lost interest in our acquaintance," he said wretchedly.   "Yes, it was Caroline who told me that Miss Bennet had visited her," said Darcy in a low voice.   "Did she tell you what her reason was to separate me from Miss Bennet? You thought it was for my welfare, I suppose." he smiled sadly and shook his head, looking at the reflection of Darcy in the window. Then he said quietly. "Did she tell you whom she wants me to marry? Her ideal sister-in-law is your sister Georgiana."   "I supposed something of the kind, but I overlooked it, thinking only of my reasons, which I stupidly found sensible. I did not know how much pain I was inflicting on you until Miss Elizabeth taught me." Darcy thought that Bingley deserved all the truth.   "Did she? She is a good friend, both brave and witty," he said with some bitter amusement. "You should marry her; she can give you your due."   Darcy clenched his fists. His breast sank when he remembered the scene: "Actually, I proposed to her and she rejected me." He said, staring at the fire. He had never said it aloud and the effects of doing it were devastating on him, internally and externally.   Bingley thought he looked devastated. "I am very sorry," said Charles. This was a night of surprises. His anger disappeared and he only felt sympathy for his friend. He appreciated that the suggestion of returning to Netherfield had been Darcy's. His confidence as to how well he would be received in the neighbourhood had been low, but as his friend had said that it might be an incivility not to return soon, he had recovered his determination and faced Miss Bennet. His friend had acted wrongly but was truly repentant and had endeavoured to remedy the damage he had caused. Moreover, he had been very sincere when he could have chosen to remain silent.   As for his friend's happiness, he did see anything that he could do. He could only be supportive and attempt to cheer him up. Charles walked to the fireplace and sat in the arm of his armchair, "I accept your apology. I shall only remember that it was for my welfare." he put his hand on his friends shoulder. "Darcy, you can consider Netherfield as your home. So I hope you will come back in few days. Will you?"   "Yes, I shall." he gave a small smile and looked at his friend. "I shall be back in ten days." Darcy felt better, he shared the heavy truth with his friend. He had an ally. Bingley was the best friend one could have.   The moment needed a change of subject, "Well, did you say that she loves me?" exclaimed Bingley, exorcising the gloomy moods of the late minutes.   "I think so." Darcy cheered up. "I dare say that she suits you very well and is one of the most accomplished woman I have met." he beamed.   Charles laughed out loudly. "You and your accomplished woman!"   "She is intelligent and sensible, amiable and very sweet." And the most beloved sister to Elizabeth, and that is saying something.   "Darcy! You are in love with Miss Bennet too, I am afraid! I shall have to fight a duel with you at dawn."   "No, no." Darcy shook his head. "At Miss Bennet's wedding, I should rather be the best man than the bridegroom."   They laughed heartily and shook hands.   The following morning, while they were having the breakfast, they still had some things to discuss, "I do not like how Caroline behaves. She criticises the Bennets too much, especially Miss Elizabeth, although she is a friend of Miss Bennet." He felt the pain of Caroline not telling him Miss Bennet was in London. "I have been thinking that if I am so lucky as to marry Miss Bennet, Caroline must live in London, with the Hursts. I think she will want to be in London, and that is the best place for her. Jane and I must live our own life..."   "My Lord! Is it Charles Bingley to whom I am talking?"   "Why?" he smiled   "Because what you are saying implies that you are perhaps going to buy a estate?"   "It is not a sudden decision. Do not look me this way. It is true. I intend to do it in the future."   "I think it is a good idea. Very good. Miss Bennet and you must have intimacy, you are a family. Will be." At this, Bingley made a gesture of surprise. "As you see, I am very confident in your wedding. What amuses me is that your decision is as fast as they ever are. We have not spent a week here, so your decision cannot be older than that."   "In fact, it is not older than a day," chuckled Bingley. "Anyway, I must tell you that my heart spoke louder than your advice of last autumn. It was just a matter of time for me. Someday I should have ridden to Longbourn and continued what I had left in November."   An hour later, Fitzwilliam Darcy left Netherfield. As the carriage left the estate, he felt wretchedly unhappy because he was aware that the impression he was making on Elizabeth was that he did not care for her anymore. 
		 Chapter Five  The very day that Fitzwilliam Darcy left Netherfield, Charles Bingley visited Longbourn and was invited to dine there the following day. Mrs. Bennet was resolved to make things as easy as possible for Mr. Bingley to propose to Jane. The following day after tea, Mr. Bennet and Mary having already left the room, she decided to leave Bingley and Jane alone. Her mind was much occupied: They must be all alone! Yes. Yes, we three must go. How? How? It must not appear arranged. How?   Although the rest were in quiet conversation, their minds were also somewhat occupied: Jane: He smiles at me. Oh, love! My, I am blushing! Charles: How beautiful you are, my love. Lizzy: What a charming couple they are. I wonder what Mr. Darcy is doing right now. Is he thinking of me? Kitty: La la la dum dum dum.   A short moment later, out of the corner of her eye, Lizzy noticed something strange in her mother's countenance. She is not talking and is staring at us. Perhaps she is feeling ill? Oh, she winked at me! I shall not look at her! She must be scheming about Bingley and Jane. Mamma, please. Oh, she winked again! Mamma! I will concentrate on my needlework and will not raise my eyes.   Some minutes later, while the other continued what they were doing, Catherine was absent minded, composing a little song: with her green, green ribbon with her green, green ribbon   what could say the next line? A word that rhymes with ribbon. Ribbon.   her cap has a ribbon her cap has a ribbon a green, green ribbon like her eyes Ah, mamma is winking at me! "What is the matter, mamma? What do you keep winking at me for? What am I to do?"   Grrr. Silly girl! "Nothing, child, nothing. I did not wink at you."   However, five minutes later Mrs. Bennet took Catherine out of the room with a flimsy excuse that only convinced Kitty.   I would swear mamma was winking indeed. It does not matter. Maybe she wants to tell me we are going to sew more green ribbons on my cap. Or maybe we are going to sew them on my light green dress? La la la dum dum dum.   Mamma!! Your intentions are too clear and that will make Bingley and Jane feel quite uncomfortable! I will not leave them. That would be most uncivil. Elizabeth thought vexedly.   Oh, no, Mamma. I do not want him to be forced to anything. Please, Lizzy, do not leave us. Jane fretted.   What is happening? Why does Mrs. Bennet leave the room with Miss Catherine? pondered Bingley.   A few minutes later, Mrs. Bennet forced Lizzy to leave the room with the same unconvincing excuse. "Hah! Ahahaha! That will do the trick!" thought Mrs. Bennet   "How embarrassing! What will he think of us? I will be back in a moment," thought Lizzy   "Please, Lizzy, do not leave us too!" thought Jane   "She has gone. Are we left without any chaperone? Jane looks very uncomfortable," thought Charles   A short moment later, Lizzy opened the door and came into the room. Good, they are chatting peacefully. She took her needlework and Bingley spoke to her.   "I was telling Miss Bennet that Darcy has sent me a message confirming that he will be back in nine days."   Later, when Mrs. Bennet learnt that there had not been a proposal, she decided that the following day nobody would get in the way. She was very ingenious and managed to leave Jane and Bingley alone in the drawing-room after tea. However, Jane was warned of her mother's intentions, so she was a little more at ease than the day before.   When Bingley found that they were alone again, he thought, This must be her mother's scheme. I must break this silence and make her feel at ease. "Were you reading this morning?" said Bingley pointing to an open book on a table some distance from him.   "Yes, I was reading my German grammar." she smiled.   "German? An old acquaintance of mine. Let me have a look at it." He stood up and reached for it. He looked at the open page and read aloud: " Deis wheter whechsilt schenil: irst Rigin, dein Sonni. Sie stigt euf din Hugil heintir dim Beiuirnhof. "   Jane laughed and gave him a tender look. She enjoyed his ability to make the dull book amusing.   "How do you judge my pronunciation, Miss Bennet?"   "You pronounce very ill, I dare say," she smiled.   "Yes, the little German I learnt in two years, was lost in two months time at the very most. I remember one of my translations. It was that old saying: "The spirit is strong, but the flesh is weak." My teacher told me I had turned it to "The liquor is hard, but the steak is tender.""   Jane laughed heartily. "I can help you with your German, if you want to," she said, relaxing a little.   "I will need very much help, for German and I were never good friends."   "With patience it will be such a good friend to you as it is now for me," she smiled.   "I am not sure: my patience would need to be applied; but I do not want to drain your's. " he retorted.   "Do not worry about that. My patience has overcome some very hard tests before. Lizzy and I taught some German to our younger sisters." she smiled. She lowered the tone of her voice: "By the way, Mary is the only one that keeps some interest in it."   "I will be delighted," he chuckled, "to remember all that I have forgotten. I do not like to think that my learning was a waste of time. I was devoted to all my subjects, except German." He looked the text again. "I am lucky to have a second chance now."   The conversation was light and amusing, and they were comfortable and friendly. However, as he said this last phrase and Jane heard it, although the meaning was related to German, she could not avoid hearing it with an echo within her. He was standing, with the book open in his hands, and as he did not hear any immediate response he looked at her again and he caught a special light shining through her eyes. It was perhaps more a feeling than an intent look.   She felt him scrutinising her countenance and, feeling shy, she said "Have you received any letter from your sisters?" more for the sake of the conversation than for real interest.   "Yes. Yesterday, a letter from Caroline." he left the book on the table and sat in front of her.   "I hope she is in good health."   "Oh, yes. And Mr. and Mrs. Hurst, too."   "I am glad to hear it. They are in London, are not they?"   "Yes," he paused briefly and met Jane's eyes, "I have heard that you stayed in London some months of last winter and spring." He was not sure in what terms they could talk about it.   Jane said, "That is true. I stayed with my uncle and aunt Gardiner." She was very still but could not avoid his look.   He perceived her uneasiness very clearly and for the first time thought that she was truly pained. "I am very sorry for not knowing of it at the time. I wish I had known," he said.   She stared in wonder. He spoke the truth; his face reflected sincerity. He had not known. "I was not told then that you had paid a visit to my sister and it grieves me very much."   She felt relief, as her past doubts and fears faded. Her countenance softened. "Do not feel grieved, Mr. Bingley. It was very unlucky that there was some kind of misunderstanding between Miss Bingley and you, but it was a matter of bad luck; we can forget it." She smiled, watching for his relief.   He admired her determination not to blame anybody. Her sweetness was generous even when she had been injured purposely. "You are all sweetness," he said softly. "Our separation was very sad to me," he added full of emotion.   She blushed but kept her eyes on Bingley's. He saw her glowing face, her smile and her tender eyes and admitted the truth he had been too humble to believe.   "I would be happy never to be separated from you again." He stood up near the fireplace and said "Miss Bennet, will you do me the honour of accepting my hand and becoming my wife?"   It was probably the fastest proposal in many years in the Hertfordshire. He did not speak of her beauty, her intelligence or of her many other virtues that made her an accomplished woman. Nor did he speak of his days of sorrow and despair when he believed that she was indifferent nor about the material advantages of their wedding. Charles Bingley only cared for the very essence of the matter.   She stood up and said tenderly, "I will be your wife." She beamed, as she was full of joy. She had never experienced so much happiness. She had not expected a proposal, but once made she believed every happy thing in this world could happen if it could be thought.   Charles was equally elated. He took Jane's hands and kissed them. "Jane, you make me so happy. I love you."   "Oh, Charles. My dear Charles, you make me so happy. I love you, too," she giggled. "Sorry, I am not quoting you." They laughed softly. 
		 Chapter Six  Life at Longbourn and Netherfield during these days could only be described as happy. Mr. Bennet grew fonder every day of Charles Bingley, and Mrs. Bennet could not love him more. Kitty thought that she (and not her sister Jane) was the luckiest girl in the Hertfordshire for she was going to have a pleasing brother who would provide her with plenty of balls and music. Even Mary was glad, because she had always thought Mr. Bingley was a good man, despite his inclination for dancing, his cheerfulness and his youth.   Lizzy was happier every day. She enjoyed Jane and Bingley's felicity and it helped to raise her own hopes of happiness, for she was not going to lose her acquaintance with Darcy, and that was a very important point for her. Still, she was not optimistic enough to daydream about their wedding for there were obstacles formed by the Lydia's marriage that Jane's marriage could not remove.   Lizzy's role during the first days of Jane and Charles' engagement was important, as she was not only the confidante of her sister. In the absence of Mr. Darcy, she became a loyal friend to Bingley and listened amiably to how elated he was, how fortunate he was and how he wished every living creature to be equally blessed with happiness. Jane had made this wish too, as Lizzy playfully remembered.   "My naive wish makes you smile," said Bingley.   "I am sorry, but I find it very amusing to see how alike you and my dear Jane are. She made the same comment when she confessed to me you were engaged," said Lizzy. Bingley sighed and Lizzy turned her face away to hide a smile.   As can be guessed, Charles Bingley did not wait for the arrival of his friend at Netherfield to tell him the good news. He hastily wrote a short letter and sent it immediately.   This was what Darcy read:    Mon, Oct 5th  I am getting married! She accepted me!   I am living the happiest moments of my life to date.   Your friend,  C. B.    He wrote another letter, equally short and informative, to the Hurst's and Miss Bingley.    My dear sisters Monday, 5of October  I have the honour of announcing that I am engaged to Miss Bennet.   We shall be married in the Netherfield parish the 21st of December.   Yours  Charles   Darcy did not think it appropriate to move Georgiana to Netherfield. It would be inconvenient to Bingley to be burdened with guests, as he would be leaving very frequently for Longbourn, Meryton or London. Darcy was free to move as required, but Georgiana would need the constant assistance of either Darcy or Bingley. He considered it better to wait some months until Bingley was more settled into his new life. Georgiana would be introduced to the neighbourhood at the wedding.   Darcy answered Bingley's note in a clearer and more articulate way:    Dear Bingley London, October 7  Congratulations, my dear friend! I am very happy to hear that you are going to marry Miss Bennet. I wish you joy with all my heart, which I think you will surely achieve if you have not already, which I sincerely doubt.   Please, give Miss Bennet my best wishes.   Your friend,  Fitzwilliam Darcy   The days passed. The contentment in which Elizabeth had spent these days was lost under the influence of surprising visit from Lady Catherine and the vexation of a stupid letter from Mr. Collins that rambled on about Lydia and her marriage. Yet both of these occurances also encouraged a dormant flicker of hope.   Monday the 12th brought Fitzwilliam Darcy back to Netherfield again. Elizabeth was now in a state of excitement of Darcy's imminent visit. She could not help taking more care than usual with her hair and dress, which proved to be of no use, as Darcy did not visit them this day - he was resting, said Bingley.   The following day Elizabeth was ready to take a morning walk on her own when the gentlemen arrived. She felt suspended when she first glanced at Darcy and he looked at her. She had a clear picture of him in her mind, but his presence heightened her emotions.   His countenance was a little serious, but nothing that could prevent Elizabeth from feeling at ease and talking to him, after those days of merriment and closer friendship with Bingley. She was far more confident in herself now because she knew she was not going to lose his acquaintance.   Bingley proposed a walk. He and Jane walked together and were soon overtaken by Darcy, Elizabeth and Kitty. The rest of the Bennet's remained at home.   Elizabeth mentioned the rainy days they had had and expressed her relief to enjoy a second day without rain. Then she asked Darcy about his journey.  Kitty found their company very boring. Mr. Darcy was not as agreeable as Mr. Bingley and she found herself a bit scared of talking in his presence, with him being so proud and serious, so she left them to call upon Maria Lucas.   "I was about to take a walk on my own when you arrived. Yesterday the ground was too muddy to have a pleasing stroll," Lizzy said as Kitty walked away. She turned and saw Jane and Charles walking very slowly a good distance away. She both feared and enjoyed the idea of walking alone with him, as they had in Rosings Park. However, her disposition was quite different now from what it had been in spring: she had every intention of keeping the conversation alive.   "Should we wait for them?" asked Darcy.   "They are walking slowly. We should not impose our presence, I think." she smiled. "It has been only a few days, hardly more than a week, since their engagement. They have many things to talk about."   He smiled. "Bingley sent me a letter announcing the engagement. I was very happy to hear it" He was being sincere.   She felt moved by his warm comment "They are very happy and it makes me happy too. Well, everybody at home is delighted and in high spirits," she said. Neither of them spoke for a moment. She did not want to talk about Jane's sadness in the last months, Darcy knew enough of it and it was useless now to repeat facts and remember things that could make them feel unhappy.   She considered the next topic. They had touched upon the weather and the state of the roads without trouble but they needed something far more substantial about which to talk. She found a safe subject.   "Has your business in town been finished successfully?"   "Yes. You know Pemberley. It is so large that it always needs some work done. Paperwork." he seemed more communicative. "It will soon require my attention again. It is a constant dedication."   "It must be." She feared to say a warmer compliment of his estate, lest he thought she was more interested on it than in its master. She suddenly realised that as she was alone with him she could thank him for his kindness in arranging Lydia's marriage. Yet, it was an uncomfortable subject and she would rather leave it aside for the moment and continue their quiet talk.   "I recall the trees of Rosings Park. The walk under them was beautiful," she said. "I suppose your aunt has the help of a very competent steward." She had mentioned this to be kind about something connected with him and the walks they had had together.   "You suppose well. My aunt takes a great deal of concern in Rosings and its surroundings, and her steward is very busy."   Elizabeth turned her face to hide a smile. She pictured Lady Catherine making decisions on every tiny detail of the estate. "Mr. Bingley has told me he intends to live in Netherfield," she said. "I like very much the idea of having my sister so near, but I think they could have a estate of their own, without moving far." They had talked before about distances between members of the same family, and Elizabeth still held the same point of view, as far he could see.   "His sisters have often told him so, but he was not inclined to do it. Maybe in time they will decide to settle in a home of their own." he said.   "Do you not approve of his living as a tenant?" She hazarded a guess at this from the emphasis that he placed on 'own'.   "No, no. I think Netherfield is a good manor. As a tenant of Netherfield, he has all the advantages of such an estate and none of its worries. However, he could have a place of his own." Again he had stressed the same word.  "Your friend does not share your views. He is content living in a home that has not been the house of his ancestors." She could see that his heart was deeply rooted in Pemberley.   "That his ancestors have not left him a landholding is of no consequence. The point is that now he has the means of purchasing one. He could have a home that belonged only to him." He looked serious as he was talking of his own possessive nature. "A property only devoted to him and his family."   "I see you are very attached to Pemberley," she dared to say.   "It has been my family's land for hundreds of years. I suppose I have it in my blood." He looked at her in an earnest, meaningful way.   She held his look and delighted at it for a while and then said, "Longbourn has been the grounds of my family for many years, too. With five daughters, however, none of us is going inherit the estate. It is entailed. As you might know, the next proprietor of Longbourn is Mr. Collins. As he is married to my friend Charlotte Lucas; the park will be out of my family's hands in the future.   "If that happened to Pemberley I would be deeply grieved."   "It is sad, indeed, but it cannot be helped." She paused to consider what she was about to say. She looked at his serious but amiable countenance and decided to say it. "I do no doubt that you would make hard sacrifices to keep Pemberley," she said, trying to prompt a smile.   "Yes. I would try to retain it. I would do anything in my power," He explained.   "Would you marry Mr. Collins?" she asked playfully.   He laughed. "I am sorry. With the due respect to Mr. Collins and his wife, it is a sacrifice I could not face. Yet, Longbourn is not completely lost for the Bennet family. Perhaps, in time, a grandchild of Mr. Bennet would marry the heir of Mr. Collins. Your families are very close," he said.   Now it was Elizabeth who laughed, because the scheme Darcy had built in a moment seemed one made by her mother. It was full of sense, yet it was funny to hear Darcy saying such things.   "You do not agree with me." He smiled. She liked his smile very much and felt a pleasing sensation of shivering in her stomach.   Then they heard a call. It was Bingley, who proposed that they return to Longbourn to dinner   Later, at bedtime, Lizzy recollected her long conversation with Mr. Darcy. Above all, she was satisfied. She was feeling a quiet happiness due to their amiable talk. She had never had really talked with him before. They had had an amiable conversation without anxiety or dislike, and that is why she felt content. This is how it should be between us as we will be very much in each other's company in the future.   ************  Continued in Part 2 

Best Friends

By Nuria

Part 1|Part 2|Part 3|

Chapter 7
The next morning the gentlemen rode again to Longbourn. Mr. Bingley proposed a walk and the same group as had walked the day before accepted the proposal eagerly. This time, however, Jane and Charles kept the pace of the others because they wanted to talk with them. Kitty, Elizabeth and Darcy walked together with Jane and Charles walking close behind, the former holding the arm of the latter. Mr. Bingley spoke.

"I think that the future Mrs. Bingley," he turned to Jane and gave her a smile, "ought make a thorough inspection of Netherfield. Some changes or adjustments might be needed and the sooner they are done, the better."

"I would like to go after dinner, if I could," agreed Jane, "to make good use of the afternoon. In the upcoming weeks I shall go to London to buy my wedding clothes..."

"And all the many other things that Mamma is writing down on a list" interrupted Lizzy playfully.

Jane and Kitty laughed. "That is right," said Jane. "The clothes and many, many other things, and I do not know exactly when I could next pay attention to the house. Lizzy, do you want to visit the house with me?"

Darcy was delighted to hear Elizabeth say that she would love to.

Then, they wandered through the park until Kitty told them she wanted to call upon Maria again for they were not going to see each other this afternoon. They had many things to talk about, for sure. Since Lydia's marriage, Kitty had found that Maria was as wonderful a companion as she could wish for. Kitty always had been devoted to Lydia, but between them was some kind of competition, nonsensical competition, which Lydia had always won. Lately Kitty had been more in the company of Maria, who was sweeter and calmer than Lydia, and they were on very friendly terms. Lizzy liked Maria very much, although the girl sometimes was too influenced by Sir William Lucas's foolishness.

The four friends kept walking together for a while, then Bingley talked in a low voice to Jane and they started a private conversation, with a slower pace than Darcy and Elizabeth, who found themselves alone in the company of the other again.

They were very comfortable, so it gave pain to Elizabeth to talk about Lydia and thus make his memory fly to Wickham, but it was necessary and she was resolved to do it now. She was anxious to thank him and the occasion seemed ideal. She meditated for a few moments what to say next, to make a quick change of topic, and avoid further awkwardness.

"Mr. Darcy, I am a very selfish creature; and, for the sake of giving relief to my own feelings, care not how much I may be wounding yours. I can no longer help thanking you for your unexplained kindness towards my poor sister. Ever since I have known of it, I have been most anxious to acknowledge to you how gratefully I feel it. Were it known to the rest of my family, I should not have merely my own gratitude to express.'' She said hastily due to her anxiety.

"I am sorry, exceedingly sorry," replied Darcy, in a tone of surprise and emotion, "that you have ever been informed of what may, in a mistaken light, have given you uneasiness. I did not think that Mrs. Gardiner was so little to be trusted.'' He repented to say the latter phrase, but that was exactly the situation he had wanted most to avoid: Elizabeth Bennet thinking that she was indebted to him.

"You must not blame my aunt. Lydia's thoughtlessness first betrayed to me that you had been concerned in the matter; and, of course, I could not rest till I knew the particulars." He seemed uneasy, as she had foreseen. "Let me thank you again, in the name of all my family, for that generous compassion which induced you to take so much trouble, and bear so many mortification, for the sake of discovering them.'' She took breathe to change the topic hastily, but he talked again.

"If you will thank me,'' he replied, "let it be for yourself alone. That the wish of giving happiness to you might add force to the other inducements which led me on, I shall not attempt to deny. But your family owe me nothing. Much as I respect them, I believe I thought only of you.''

This made her abandon the topic she had been about to discuss. Elizabeth was too embarrassed to say a word. He had said something too important and they were feeling all the significance of the moment.

After a short pause, Darcy resolved to finish what he had begun, "You are too generous to trifle with me. If your feelings are still what they were last April, tell me so at once. My affections and wishes are unchanged, but one word from you will silence me on this subject for ever.'' He suddenly was aware that in a short instant he would hate or love for ever the path they were walking upon.

Elizabeth, feeling all the more than common awkwardness and anxiety of his situation, now forced herself to speak immediately.

"My feelings... have changed so much that, I receive with gratitude and pleasure your... present assurances." Her heart was racing.

He had never felt before such happiness. "I love you, Elizabeth!" He said relieved and elated. "Let me tell you again how much I love you! Oh, my beautiful, my intelligent love. I love you and I admire you. I will keep this minute on my mind for ever. The moment in which you filled me with happiness." He admired her modesty and respected her silence, but he let his feelings flow. "The most beloved moment, when you accepted me, dearest, loveliest Elizabeth."

They walked on, without knowing in what direction. There was too much to be thought, and felt, and said, for attention to any other objects.

They talked about his aunt and how unwittingly she had united them. They talked about their former feelings and behavior, and would have been talking for hours, but after walking several miles in a leisurely manner, they found at last, on examining their watches, that it was time to be at home. On the way home they talked about his friend.

Lizzy informed Jane after dinner, and her confidante was so delighted to hear those good news that it gave Lizzy courage to face the reactions of the rest of the family and all their acquaintances. The general prejudice against Mr. Darcy was so strong that it seemed impossible task to win them all over.

The gentlemen went to Netherfield after dinner, and sent Mr. Bingley's carriage to Longbourn for the ladies. Of course, Kitty and Mrs. Bennet joined the party.

The tour began with the dinning room and then they moved to the drawing room. Mrs. Bennet cried that both rooms needed new curtains in more fashionable colours and that the armchairs and the sofa must be reupholstered in a fabric that matched the curtains. Mr. Darcy reminded his friend that he must let the proprietor of Netherfield know of the changes. Mrs. Bennet had to agree with this, against of her will.

The billiard room, the library and the smoking room were left aside by Mrs. Bennet, who said they were the men's realm. Then, they all went upstairs. Darcy felt a strong desire to go downstairs and remain in the smoking room, writing a letter to Georgiana while the trip round the house continued, but he wanted to be polite with Mrs. Bennet, so he bore civilly all the boring and repeated comments about the new linen that was needed in all the bedrooms, the new cushions, the new arrangement of the main bedroom and the new pattern they would have.

Elizabeth was a bit upset with her mother. She was deciding everything without asking the opinion of the couple. Bingley was being very polite but he had his own tastes. He glanced Jane from time to time, but she seemed the picture of patience. Lizzy intended to talk about it later with Jane.

Elizabeth's ill mood faded a great deal when she realized the forbearance that Mr. Darcy was showing. She was sure that the afternoon must be rather dull for him and that Mrs. Bennet showed too much stupidity to make him feel at ease. But instead of excusing himself and hiding himself in the billiard room or in the library, he was there, supporting Bingley's remarks and adding from time to time some sensible comment. And, most delightful to Elizabeth, he always managed to stand near her, close, although they had not yet announced their understanding to the world.

When the tour finished, tea was ready in the drawing room, but not even tea was an impediment to Mrs. Bennet, who could sip tea and ramble on at the same time about the shops they should go to in the city. The others just suffered her more or less patiently. Then, the party took a walk in the front garden until the carriage was ready and they returned to Longbourn.

That evening, Darcy and Bingley had supper in Longbourn, with the unexpected company of the Lucases, who gave very good news.

"Charlotte is expecting a baby!" shrilled Lady Lucas. Sir William Lucas was glowing with happiness and was quite in the mood to share it with the other gentlemen. Mr. Bennet enjoyed and shared the elation of his neighbour, but could not help enjoying the sight of his young guests, too, who were being taught about the worthy pains of parenthood. He also observed that Maria had told the news to Kitty in the morning, and amazingly, Kitty had kept the secret so as not to spoil the Lady Lucas's pleasure in telling the news.

Later, when Elizabeth was serving coffee, Mr. Darcy walked towards her and smiled. He was learning to come to terms with her proximity, and his desire to talk with her. Until this moment, he had not had a chance to speak to her; not a moment for them in the afternoon, and in the evening Lady Lucas and Mary had gained the places beside her at the table, so he had waited to be the last one of the party to get his cup, in hopes of speaking with her.

Elizabeth had had patience when the chairs were occupied again by the girls. She just sat and served the coffee.

"This is very good news that I hear of the Collinses," said Mr. Darcy while Elizabeth offered him a cup.

"I am very glad. I know Charlotte loves children." She smiled and poured coffee for herself. The girls were choosing names for the baby, and discussing if its hair would be blonde like Maria's or brown like Charlotte's. The girls ignored Mr. Collins because they wished the child to be a beautiful and intelligent creature.

Mr. Darcy detached himself by two steps from the noisy and lively table, inviting Elizabeth to do the same. They stood by the window.

"Hunsford will be a merry place, soon," he said looking at Maria, who was in raptures to become aunt.

"Indeed. This baby will bring a great deal of happiness to each member of the family. The baby would be the pride of his father and the best company to Charlotte. A child brought up by Charlotte would grow to be intelligent of mind and strong in moral qualities." Elizabeth's mind flew to Hunsford and there she remembered Colonel Fitzwilliam.

"Have you had news of your cousin Colonel Fitzwilliam? It is a long time since I last knew of him."

He informed her of a letter that had arrived in September. "He addressed it from Salamanca, but it was sent to Lisbon and there it had to wait until a ship could be spared."

"How could you know that?" she asked in playful wonder.

"Because my cousin told me the long journey his letter would take in advance. It is written in his letter." He looked his empty coffee cup. Elizabeth smiled at the sign of his shyness.

"Very thoughtful. But still I do not know how is he, although he must be in good health if he writes letters. Or at least he was well when he wrote it," she teased.

"Yes, he was well at the time of writing the letter. And now he is well, as much as we can learn from the newspapers. Georgiana and I read the news about the militia in Spain every day. The Times and the Courier are faster than his letters, and in them appear the names of the dead and those who suffered serious injuries."

Elizabeth nodded, demonstrating that she understood and approved of the Darcys' concern for their cousin.

He continued. "His letters are not very informative when they arrive, anyway. He talked more about the good food and wine than of the things we long to know."

"I suppose he wants to appear nonchalant," said Lizzy. "The war is a tough reality to live." She could not help a sigh of relief that Mr. Darcy was not exposed to such danger.

Meanwhile, Mrs. Bennet was trying to draw the conversation into discussing Miss King's new gown. She could not help feeling a bit jealous of her neighbour who was to become grandmother sooner than she was. Seeing that Lady Lucas was reluctant to leave the topic of her grandson, Mrs. Bennet called Lizzy quite loudly to gain the attention of the room for a moment.

"Tell me, Lizzy. What do you think of Miss King's new gown?"

"Very much in the fashion, although I like a green less dark. She must wear it to Jane's wedding and when dear Charlotte arrives with her child," she turned to Lady Lucas. "If he is christened at our church. Although perhaps his father's church at Hunsford was chosen?"

Lady Lucas was about to reply but a sudden movement of Mrs. Bennet made her ask: "Are you well, Mrs. Bennet?"

"No, and I am sorry for it, but I have to excuse myself. I have a terrible headache, and I must go directly to the bed before it gets permanently on my head! Tomorrow I will face a very long journey and I have to save all the remaining forces of my poor nerves."

Although it was too soon for the rest of the party to go to bed, the guests expressed intentions of leaving but Mrs. Bennet insisted that they must remain and have a good evening. She only asked not to be bothered at all until the following day.

Elizabeth knew she must find a moment to talk to her mother the following day. She turned to Darcy, and he was absent minded, looking out the window, and his countenance was peaceful.

"Have you finished your cup of coffee?" she asked to make him come back.

He nodded, took her cup "Yes. Thank you", and put them in the table.

Bingley, seeing that his friends were not engaged in conversation at the moment, asked for their attention.

"Miss Elizabeth, Darcy! Come and help us with the schedule for our time in London. We must have your opinions." Darcy and Elizabeth sat with the couple, and the four friends talked about the timetables of the good plays, dinner and supper parties, and days of busy shopping.

When the Lucases were gone, Darcy asked Mr. Bennet for a private talk. Mr. Bennet could not foresee the topic of the talk, so he was very surprised when Mr. Darcy stated his desire to marry his dear Elizabeth. Then, after consulting Lizzy, Mr. Bennet at last gave his consent.


Chapter 08
They departed on a Friday afternoon after some family quarrels of little importance. On Thursday, very early in the morning, Mrs. Bennet became angry with Mr. Bennet, because he had no intention of going to London. She was trying to convince him, and thus she had followed him into the library, but he was maintaining a hard resistance.

"I just would be a nuisance. I have no taste for muslin and it does not like me very much either," he retorted to his wife.

"I do not want you to see muslin. You must have a new waistcoat!" she argued.

"I am in no need of new waistcoats. I have waistcoats already and they are very dear to me." He teased

"But they are extremely old. Jane is marrying a person of fashion and you just want to look like a beggar!"

"I will become a beggar if I spend my money in golden sewn waistcoats, my dear Mrs. Bennet."

"It is not all sewn in gold! It only shall have some golden braiding. You must have one tailored! You must listen to me!" she cried.

"I am doing no other thing. But still I do not want to go to London." He stared at her with a very serious look and then she burst out.

"No one will listen to me! You do not know what you do to my poor nerves!" She hastened out of the room.

Lizzy left her room. She had heard her parents quarreling and feared it could be caused by her engagement with Darcy. Mrs. Bennet always expressed her dislike of Darcy.

Why is he always imposing his presence? It seems impossible not to be in his company. He is an awful and boring man! Mrs. Bennet had said. As Jane had defended him, the mother had retorted: Quite a gentleman! You are very wrong! He is the most unlikely gentleman I have ever known. He is rude and proud. He thinks us inferior to him and acts like that. I cannot stand him!

Jane had insisted he had been kind to the Gardiners and to Lizzy when they had met in summer but Mrs. Bennet had cried: This cannot be, my dear! He was horrible to Lizzy, and in Meryton everybody hates him. We know his real character. Maybe in summer he was kind with them to pretend he is a good man before his sister's eyes, but I dare say that he is quite different when he is not in her company.

With those thoughts, Lizzy came into the library, and there Mr. Bennet told her he still had not shared the good news with his wife.

Lizzy was deeply relieved when her father explained the cause of the argument, and when she explained her fears to him, he agreed to make all he could to soothe Mrs. Bennet's poor nerves. Lizzy obtained a promise from her father to go to London to have a new waistcoat tailored. He would only need three days, and Lizzy and Jane could support a wiser buy.

Then, Lizzy climbed up the stairs only to find her mother, coming out Jane's room, very upset. Lizzy dared to tell her that she was required in the library, but Mrs. Bennet took on an offended look and said she would be in the drawing room if someone wanted to speak to her. Lizzy entered Jane's room and saw that her sister was frowning.

"How much do you wish to go to London?" asked Jane.

"Very much. Very much indeed," admitted Lizzy.

"I thought so. But mother says that Papa is being rather miserly, so you will have to remain here. She says you do not have any business in town, so we can spare you. But you do have to come, you need a dress. The sooner she hears the news, the better. She was in such bad humour I was not so bold as to reply to her." Explained Jane.

Lizzy felt harmed by the injustice of her mother's decision. Although the item had not been discussed, it had been implied during the day before that Lizzy was to go to London.

"I intended to tell her now, but she is very angry." Said Lizzy

"I think you are too afraid of her. Her opinion of Mr. Darcy is not so awful, and all her objections to him would change instantly when she finds out the engagement: you will be very well settled. Her first worry is your comfort," said Jane. Lizzy nodded and smiled. Jane continued talking.

"Besides, I would like to have your opinion on my dress, and the other things. Yesterday we made plans and I want you to come and stay with me. We could have such a nice time. I am very selfish, only thinking of having someone good to me by my side," said Jane.

"No, you are not selfish. I want to be with you while we choose our gowns, and I want to see a good play together, and fulfill all the appointments we agreed upon yesterday. I want to be there with you and make you forget your sad weeks in London last winter. I do not want you to be alone with mother, Miss Bingley and Mrs. Hurst." Jane was about to speak but Lizzy now was determined and said, "I have no intention of leaving you alone. Soon we will be married and we will never be together again."

"No! Never again is too much, dear Lizzy," Jane said, smiling." I am leaving for a house that is only a long walk on foot from our parent's home."

"Oh, but a very muddy one!" They laughed, and Lizzy continued. "I meant that we will never be living like this together. We will never be again like this, because you are to be a married woman and so am I. I will never enter again your bedroom freely to talk before sleep or... in the morning to help you with your hair when a certain Mr. Bingley comes," she said. Jane hugged Lizzy, and she shed a tear.

"That makes me think..." said Lizzy, "If I am in desperate need of a helpful hand with my hair I will miss Mrs. Hill's old styles or Kitty's pulls." Jane laughed again and dried her eyes.

"I think mother said those words only in despair over her discussion with father. I must have this settled before dinner. Mr. Bingley and Mr. Darcy will arrive at two o'clock and we want to spare them the sight of mother's ill moods." Stated Lizzy.

"Yes, we do. I would go with you but I ought to organize all my clothes," said Jane.

"Do not worry. I hope to be back soon upstairs and begin to pack." Lizzy grinned and walked out of the room.

However, when she got to the drawing room she found her parents talking merrily. Mr. Bennet had gone there to tell his wife he would go to London for a couple of days.

Mrs. Bennet smiled broadly at Lizzy and said "My dear, you should be upstairs choosing your best garments. You must look beautiful in London. Who knows, my dear, who knows! We can still make a good match!"

Mr. Bennet raised an eyebrow, mocking Lizzy. She accepted comment and joking glance with good humour. She sat beside her mother.

"I have very good news. Last night, Mr. Darcy asked Father for his permission and consent to marry me."

Mrs. Bennet turned swiftly to her husband, and he, wasting a good opportunity of amusement tormenting her, said he had given his consent. Mrs. Bennet immediately was in raptures, feeling joy and relief. Relief to have another daughter married. Joy for the advantageous union. She expressed her feelings loudly and on a confused way, due to her extreme surprise at the news.

Lizzy leaned over and kissed her mother's cheek, then hurried out of the room. She climbed the stairs speedily, knocked on Jane's room and said to her "I told her. I am packing". Then, she rushed into her room and opened her wardrobe.

With no interruption, Jane, Kitty and Mary entered her room.

"I was sure it would make her very happy" said Jane, but she could be hardly heard due to Kitty's excitement.

"I guessed! I guessed! Maria told me that Charlotte had told her Mr. Darcy was quite probably interested in you. Did he propose yesterday? Or it was the Tuesday? Maria told me I must not be your chaperone and I did not want to get in your way." Shrilled Kitty

Lizzy and Jane were amused by Kitty's maneuvers. Mary glared at her sister, with no effect on her, who had reached Lizzy and was hugging her warmly.

Mary solemnly said "I wish you any happiness, small as it is, that can be reached in this world. Mr. Darcy is a serious, decent man and I am very glad for you." Then she kissed Lizzy gently.

When Lizzy was alone again, she started to ponder her favourite gowns, which were the ones that best suited her, which were the smartest ones. She did not have as large a collection of dresses as Charles Bingley's sisters'. Anyway, she preferred to dress simply, and those sisters favored the opposite of simplicity.

"They are only simple in the use of their minds," said Lizzy, out loud. Her smile faded when she recalled their behaviour towards Jane. She folded the creamy yellow light overcoat. "They are not so simple".

She took the creamy yellow dress and folded it. "I will not think more about them. Jane returns to London in triumph, and so do I." She smiled again when she took the beautiful white gown. "You were last worn in November. I will make a good use of you again." She did three steps of a dancing figure and smiled to her partner, who she saw in her mind. She felt a pleasing thrill in her stomach. She folded the dress with an absentminded smile.

A few moments later, Lizzy heard there was a commotion. Kitty was crying downstairs.

"There, there. What happened, my child?" asked Mrs. Bennet.

Mary came out of the library and glanced at Kitty. "You should be glad for the time for reflection you gain" she stated snootily. "I remain at home very content. There is nothing in the city for you."

The tears ran down Kitty's cheeks. She sobbed in her handkerchief. Lizzy's heart melted at the sight of the poor silly girl suffering the consequences of Lydia's acts. Kitty was guilty of no more and no less than the deep influence of Lydia in her. However, as far as Lizzy could see, the way of improving the girl was not confining her to the company of her sister, who had the opposite character from Lydia but was equally silly. Mary enjoyed moralism but seemed to have no more common sense than Lydia in her own way.

"And that is all? You cannot come to London, my dear. Remember your father's words," said Mrs. Bennet.

"But I would be in your company all the time," said Kitty, her voice thick with crying.

Mr. Bennet opened the door. "What happened here?" he asked. He had heard the voices in the hall.

"Mr. Bennet, your child is very miserable. She wants to go to Town but she cannot." Mrs. Bennet's voice was calmed, as if she wanted to maintain the peace.

"Hum." He looked at Kitty carefully. The girl was really sad. "Hum," he said looking at Mrs. Bennet, who expected an answer. "Hum." he saw Mary holding a book of sermons and then saw Lizzy nodding slightly at him.

"Catherine, my dear, I made you a promise of keeping a close eye on you, so I suppose you must come to Town and return when I do so," he said.

Kitty looked at him in amazement for a moment, then gave him a warm hug. "I will be good, I promise." Her face was glowing. She ran upstairs elated.

Mrs. Bennet turned to Mary. "Mary, will you come, too? You can be of help, amusing our parties with your music."

"I would rather not, Mother. There is nothing in London that could appeal me. I will enjoy a little time of solitude at home," said Mary.

"Are you sure, Mary?" asked her father. "My visit is intended to last few days, but it could end up being a week. Do you really want to be alone for a week?" Mary reassured him that she would not go to London, so the matter was settled. Everybody but Mary would go.

"The poor child must feel slighted. After all, she has not traveled since I do not remember when," said Mrs. Bennet. The others did not mention what they thought, and then everyone went back to their tasks.

They had dinner when Mr. Bingley and Mr. Darcy arrived, as punctual as ever. To Lizzy's dismay, it began to rain, so they remained indoors, subject to her mother's chatter. She was amiability in person towards Darcy. She kept asking Charles and Darcy all afternoon long about the distance between their houses and the Gardiners, their house and Buckingham Palace, their house and the Houses of Parliament, and thus every other well known place in town, and all the good shops in between, as if she had never been to Town.

Mr. Bennet had a pleasant time talking with Darcy and Charles, when one of them was spared by Mrs. Bennet's chatter. They talked about the last news of the wars. Lizzy overheard something regarding Spain, France and North America , and was eager to learn something new about the wars.

However she scarcely said anything. Lizzy was not in the mood of conversation. She had too much in her mind and her sensibility was aware of the new air conversations and looks had now. Kitty was absent minded, feeling completely happy. Jane, equally absent minded, was probably worried about all the things there were to do and the time they would take. Mary was on the opposite side of the room, with her book.

This sight of Jane and Kitty made Lizzy smile. Lizzy took her eyes off her sisters and looked again at the gentlemen talking near her. She saw Darcy glancing at her. She could not help engaging his look for a moment, swiftly looking at her needlework.

"You are very silent, Lizzy!" her father called to her suddenly, realizing this fact. He was beginning to think highly of the mind of Mr. Darcy and wanted her to show off Lizzy's intelligence and wit, as a proud father of his accomplished child. Moreover, he thought few people of their acquaintance were intelligent enough for her quick mind. Apart from Lizzy's elder sister, Mr. Bennet only thought Charlotte was at the same level.

"I am very concentrated in my work. But talk to me, I will listen and answer if you ask me."

Darcy's attention was fixed on her. "We were arranging the luggage and the seats for tomorrow."

"Are the arrangements made, then?" she asked. Mr. Darcy nodded.

"Where will my gloves go?" she teased.

"They will travel in my carriage."

"That shall satisfy me. They will have a comfortable journey," she said, smiling.

Darcy explained the seats arrangements "Bingley and I will go in my carriage. Miss Catherine, Miss Bennet and you will go in Bingley's. Mr. and Mrs. Bennet in Mr. Bennet's."

Then he gave details about the loading of the trunks. She realized the little happy moment of having him in the same room talking to her. She was deeply happy and she anticipated the journey with pleasure.


Chapter 09
The party arrived to London on the late hours of the afternoon. Their first stop was at the Gardiner's house. The luggage was unloaded, and the Bennet family parted from the two young gentlemen.

The following morning was Saturday, but they managed to make some worthwhile visits to the shops that first required their attention. Mrs. Bennet did not want to waste the occasion, and the first stop was with Mr. Bennet's tailor, where she described the required design and Mr. Bennet pronounced his desire for discretion in the making of the garment.

Meanwhile, Mrs. Gardiner took Jane, Kitty and Lizzy to the seamstress who had made her party gowns on other occasions. There, Kitty chose a fabric and a model, and they agreed that they should have a similar one made up for Mary, whose measurements Lizzy had taken the day before. Then, they purchased a piece of the same fabric to line two pair of new slippers for the young girls.

The rest of the day was spent at the Gardiner's preparing for the supper gathering at Bingley's townhouse. The two couples had agreed to join the three families together. It was an important assembly because it was the first time the Bennet's and the Bingleys had come with each other after the engagement. The Bingleys were going to be family and Jane felt anxious due to the significance of the meeting. She would gain two sisters that had showed so much ill will towards her family in the past. Lizzy could not help feeling sorry for Jane, and very happy for herself. Georgiana would be a charming new sister for Lizzy, sweet in temper and intelligent mind. She only had one fear: that her family could embarrass her. She hoped Kitty or Mrs. Bennet would not mention the militia, and that Mr. Bennet would not comment how was the first impression Mr. Darcy and Lizzy had of each other.

Anyway, Lizzy wished the evening to be as pleasant as possible, so her determination to support and cheer Jane became more fixed than ever. She devoted a great deal of time helping her sister with her gown and hair, which was arranged in a beautiful way, and then praised her sister's graceful figure, making her smile and laugh until the hour to depart.

Mrs. Bennet was very excited at the prospect of the party. Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley were now her most cherished acquaintances, with such a supreme taste for fashion and such delicate manners; such distinguished, elegant air of people that enjoy the best material comforts and know the most selected of society. She was the first to start to dress up, and rushed often into the rooms to see if the girls were ready, and to give advice in tiny details of their appearance. When all the family was sitting downstairs in the drawing room waiting for the carriages, Mrs. Bennet could not help pacing about the room, now looking herself in the mirror, now rearranging Kitty's hair, who did not mind due to her own elatedness, as Lizzy had told her she would meet the Mr. Darcy's lovely young sister, a girl her own age.

Fitzwilliam Darcy had nothing to fear for himself, nor for Elizabeth Bennet. Quite the contrary, he barely could feel anything apart from contentment and happiness. He only hoped that his sister felt at ease with her new family.

Charles Bingley was in a mood of quiet happiness. He did not feel the slight anxiety that Jane felt. His kind heart had forgiven his sisters, although now he knew them for what they were better. His remarkable intelligence had always been blinded by his kind heart in matters regarding his loved ones. He was morally superior to Louisa and Caroline, and he had always known his siblings' flaws, but had made the decision to ignore them. But now there was a difference, he had someone he loved profoundly. There was nothing in Jane to be ignored or forgiven, because she was such a kind, good, lovely woman. These the traits were the ones which most appealed him, and were the reasons that compelled him to protect such a wonderful creature from people that could hurt her. He loved Jane.

Bingley greeted his guests, offered Jane his arm, and introduced Georgiana Darcy to the Bennets. He did not want the party to be formal, so he let his guests form small groups without interfering. He joined Jane, telling her in a low voice how beautiful she was and welcoming her to the house that would soon be hers. She was started by this comment and they laughed together at her surprise, that she would soon be the mistress of the place. Her mind was so full of the tasks to be accomplished before the wedding that all the day she had forgotten she was to be the future mistress of the house.

However, Mrs. Bennet had not forgotten that important fact for a second, and asked Caroline Bingley for a tour of the house. Miss Bingley was vexed by the idea of Mrs. Bennet being a guest of more importance than herself in her parents' house, but proceeded civilly to give the tour, and not reluctantly, as it was a mean pleasure to show Mrs. Bennet the superior condition of her family. They saw the first level before the supper was announced.

Elizabeth had concealed her own excitement from herself very well by taking care of Jane but when she entered Mr. Bingley's hall, she felt the excitement again when she saw Darcy. They stole a glance at each other, he nodded gently and she beamed. She saw he was talking to someone. He moved slowly to the left and Elizabeth saw he was with Georgiana. Bingley introduced the girl, and then Lizzy, keeping Kitty by her side, started to talk to Georgiana, hoping that Kitty would follow the conversation. Georgiana was determined to be as amiable as possible. She did not talk very much, but she smiled and responded in a friendly and engaging manner. She was very glad to see Lizzy again, and had looked forward the party at which she would meet two of Lizzy's four sisters: Catherine, who was near her age, and Miss Bennet, who was to be Mr. Bingley's bride. Her brother had praised Miss Bennet very much recently, and had told her Catherine was lively and amiable.

"Lizzy told me you play the pianoforte very well," said Kitty with eagerness, addressing Miss Darcy.

As she spoke, Lizzy feared Kitty would want to dance, and force Georgiana to play for her, but such was not the case.

"I love to hear music. I would help you with the sheets if you would play something", said Kitty. Georgiana agreed immediately without feeling shy. Such instant alterations were only possible when caused by the willingness of young girls disposed to be friends. The two young girls sat at the piano, having a look at the partitures.

"I hope that your gloves have arrived in a suitable condition." said Darcy when they were left alone.

Lizzy was delighted to see he was open and amiable. "I thank you, they have arrived in perfect condition. They never have been treated better." She beamed and he smiled more broadly.

"Did you have a good day?" he asked.

"A good day, indeed. Although we decided to divide in two groups. These will be hectic days, due to the huge amount of tasks to accomplish." Both smiled shyly.

Mrs. Gardiner approached them to sit on an armchair and Darcy asked her if her family had been in good health since their last meeting.

Mrs. Hurst was sitting with her husband, debating which group she should join. She did not consider Mr. Hurst company.

Darcy and Lizzy turned to Mr. Bennet, who was assuring the company that he had been less bothered by the journey to London than by his short visit to the tailor. The Gardiners laughed at his tale, and Darcy smiled.

Georgiana started to play a cheerful air, chosen by Kitty, and all the room paused to listen to the music. Georgiana felt embarrassed and stopped. Kitty turned her head to the party.

"Please, do not pay heed to us. We are just playing random lines," she said.

At her request, the room was filled again with the sound of pleasant conversation and Georgiana started to play anew. Mrs. Gardiner scolded Mr. Bennet gently and told him that he needed the new waistcoat. Darcy looked at Elizabeth with a meaningful glance of gratitude and she wondered at how well she understood him, now that she knew better his character.

The butler announced that the dinner was ready. Bingley took Jane's hand, and led her to the dining room. The seats had not been previously arranged, instead everyone chose to sit near the people that he or she had been talking to. Mr. Darcy was very pleased to sit next to Elizabeth; Mrs. Hurst sat near her husband; Caroline Bingley was trapped by Mrs. Bennet, who was in raptures after viewing such a beautiful house; the young girls sat together without hesitation.

Elizabeth and Darcy had sat at the same table several times, but they had never sat side by side. It was easy for them to start to talk, as everyone near was engaged in a conversation. Georgiana, next to Darcy, spoke to him just one or two words about the second course. She was listening to Kitty, who was telling her the good luck of Maria Lucas, who soon would have a nephew or a niece. If Kitty expressed to Georgiana her hope to be both aunts soon, it was in a very low voice.

Mrs. Gardiner, next to Lizzy, decided to converse with her husband, Mr. Bennet and Mr. Hurst, although they were talking about hunting and fishing, and she was not interested in those sports at all. Mrs. Bennet was happy to engage the attention of Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley, although from time to time she needed to express some comments in a louder voice to be heard by the rest of the table, calling for answers to certain questions.

Miss Bingley gazed once or twice to the part of the table where Elizabeth and Darcy were sitting. She wondered what they could be talking about. Elizabeth was confident and Darcy was open. They were enjoying each other's company very much.

Caroline Bingley and Louisa Hurst managed to restrain gaping when Mr. Bingley gave them, hours before, in the morning, the happy news of the engagement between Mr. Darcy and Miss Elizabeth Bennet. When Darcy arrived, both sisters made haste to greet him and wish him all the happiness in the world. Later in the evening, they would have to express their best wishes to Miss Eliza, and tell the Bennets how happy they were to closer their acquaintance becoming family. The waiter refilled some wine glasses.

Mr. Darcy was delighted to see his sister enjoying Kitty's company, and turned to Elizabeth, who was well aware of her aunt's intentions, as Mrs. Gardiner pointedly ignored her favorite niece.

"I suppose that you have taken many books from Longbourn?" asked Darcy, calling for her attention.

Elizabeth smiled. "Quite the contrary. My uncle keeps a very good library, so I took only the book I am currently reading."

"Which book are you reading?"

"The Princess of Cleves, by Madame de La Fayette"

"The Princess of Cleves" he repeated. "I have not read it. Is it good?"

"Very good indeed. It is not the first time that I have read this novel, but I always enjoy it."

"Indeed? Some books seem to gain a certain affection on the reader. What is The Princess of Cleves about?" he asked.

"It is the story of the mademoiselle de Chartres, who marries the Prince of Cleves in the beginning of the past century. She lives within the King of France's court. The novel depicts the life of people of high rank in those years. It is very interesting."

"If you would recommend it, I would read it", said Darcy.

"I only speak for my own taste. I am not sure if you would enjoy this novel."

"I always enjoy good literature, and if I have not read this book is because I have never heard of it before." His countenance was pleasant.

"Although it is a very well known novel, I guess why you hear of it for the first time now." She paused playfully, willing to sting his curiosity.

"Why?" he said amusedly.

"It is a book mostly read by women. I can not imagine your book seller convincing you to read it." She was amused. "I am sure Mr. Bingley knows the novel. He has two elder sisters"

"Are you sure? I have never heard them mention the book. And I can assure you he never spoke of it to me" he stated.

Lizzy recalled by this comment that the Bingley sisters read very little, but she still kept her opinion.

"Perhaps they read it years ago. That they choose not to mention it to you does not change the fact of they mentioning it to Mr. Bingley, thus knowing the book." She was smiling. "And it is very likely he did not bother to mention the book to you."

"I do not think so. Mr. Bingley and I enjoy reading, and he knows I always want to know about good books," he smiled too.

She did not have to meditate her response. She knew enough about Mr. Bingley's sisters. "Maybe his sisters did not enjoy the book, and Mr. Bingley took the notion of it being a dull book, but still he must know it."

He accepted her challenge amusedly "If you are so sure, we can ask Mr. Bingley himself."

"I am quite sure. We can ask him," she said with a teasing smirk.

Elizabeth and Darcy looked at Bingley, who was in front of Georgiana, and waited to reclaim his attention. In a pause of his conversation with Jane, Darcy addressed him:

"Charles, Miss Elizabeth and I are discussing a novel. She claims you know it and I doubt it. Can you help us?" He said discreetly, smiling.

Bingley smiled too, and said "Please, tell me the title"

" The Princess of Cleves , by Madame de La Fayette," said Darcy.

"I am sorry for you, Darcy. I am afraid Miss Elizabeth is right. I know the book. I hope you are not losing much money on this bet."

Bingley, Jane and Elizabeth laughed, and Darcy, smiling, bowed his head to Elizabeth. "You were right. My apologies for doubting your words."

"I accept them. Now you would have to read the book," she teased.

"You would enjoy it," said Bingley. "When Miss Bennet talked to me about it, she said it was very good." He looked at Jane, remembering they had talked about it in Netherfield.

Lizzy opened her eyes in surprise and Darcy laughed. "It seems I was not entirely right. My apologies, Mr. Darcy, for doubting your words," she laughed.

Their laughs attracted the attention of the party, and Bingley made good use of it. He stood up and announced that he and Mr. Darcy would host a ball in eleven day's time to introduce their fiancees to their London acquaintances. There were many expressions of approval. To Lizzy's amazement, Kitty did not cry in elation, she just expressed her excitement quietly. During the night Lizzy found that Kitty behaved the same as her company and new friend, and was becoming much more discreet than other times.

The gathering ended very soon, as most of the guests were tired and wanted to keep their energy for the next busy days. Lizzy would have remained for hours gladly, teasing Mr. Darcy.


Chapter 10
The next day, Sunday the seventeenth of October, the Bennets and the Gardiners were heading towards the church. Mrs. Bennet was talking to Mrs. Gardiner.

"My dear, he has always been very amiable and quite a gentleman with us. He was to be the best man in Jane's wedding, and that was almost like being family. I am so glad that he is Mr. Bingley's closest friend! Mr. Darcy and Mr. Bingley have a steady friendship that some siblings never come to reach, and that is very good for the girls. They will see each other frequently," said Mrs. Bennet.

Mrs. Gardiner nodded, hiding a smile, and said, "He is amiable and polite, and his behaviour towards our family could not be more generous and kind." Mrs. Gardiner was not sure about how to explain Mr. Darcy's kind heart without revealing too much about Lydia's wedding to her sister in law.

Mrs. Bennet went on with her rambling. "And his little sister is so lovely. I thought last night she was very happy with Kitty, and Kitty very happy with Miss Darcy, I would say." Mrs. Bennet looked back at Kitty, walking a few steps behind. Then she looked at Lizzy.

"I am elated. Elated, sister! Mr. Darcy is such a good match for Lizzy. Let Charlotte Lucas marry twenty Mr. Collinses. Lizzy is so intelligent! Mr. Bennet always said so, and it is true. From the very beginning of their acquaintance she set her mind on Mr. Darcy, and I am sure that she invented that he had been quite disagreeable with her only to let all the other girls grow a keen dislike of him! He is a good man, and some of us could see it. We knew he was a worthy fellow, but many people thought he was disdainful and aloof. My Lizzy is so intelligent! I am very proud of her."

Mrs. Bennet did not know the effect her words were having on her confidante, because Mrs. Gardiner hid her amusement very well.

Some steps behind them were Lizzy and her father, talking much more quietly.

"It will be a good thing for her to go out in your company," said Mr. Bennet. "I had not thought about it, but perhaps that way she will forget her wish to live with Lydia, whose life she could see as a model of perfect joyful life." Mr. Bennet's wit wanted an object of amusement, but his mood towards his children had changed. The girls were no longer the objects of his acid remarks. He kept his good humour, but took much more care about their future.

"We will try to keep her mind occupied with things that could improve her," said Lizzy. "I confess I had not much faith in Kitty taking a sudden interest in painting or playing music, but yesterday night she behaved very properly and made friends with a girl who could have a very good influence on her."

"Or give her example," said Mr. Bennet. "But would Kitty take example of Miss Darcy, having had Lydia as former model? I must hope so." He sighed.

Lizzy thought about the mistake both Lydia and Georgiana had made, and amazed before the turns and twists of life, being now Miss Darcy a good example to Kitty, having made the same error as Lydia.

After the service, the Bennets and the Gardiners met the Bingleys, Hursts and Darcys, with the intention of taking a walk in the park before dinner, to enjoy the fine weather.

The Bingley sisters were swiftly captured by Mrs. Bennet's ramble about muslins and the sisters started to wonder if the woman intended to buy all the national stockpiles of the material. Mrs. Gardiner found herself trapped in this group too, but she was eager to have a closer observation of what was their real character, and how they behaved with others.

Mr. Gardiner commented upon an incident that had happened near the Houses of Parliament and the gentlemen started to talk about it. The girls were together, taking care of the Gardiners' children. Georgiana was enjoying the Bennet sisters' conversation and the merry fuss of the children.

A few minutes later, the older members of the group wanted to have some rest on a park bench. The Hursts sat themselves, too. Mr. Darcy could see Miss Bingley glancing at him desperately. She wanted him to rescue her from Mrs. Bennet's chattering, but this was a privilege she had lost, having shown so much ill will towards Elizabeth and Jane in the past. Her friendship with Mr. Darcy never recovered the strength it had. Once someone lost his good opinion, it was lost forever.

He nodded at her politely and left his conversation to join the young ladies' group.

He stood by Elizabeth, who was asking Georgiana where she could buy a new partiture for Mary. She only knew one music shop and wanted to know a better one.

"The shop I use to buy in is next to St. Martin in the fields. Mr. Beresford, the shopkeeper, always has the latest music from the best contemporary composers. It is on the fourth number of *** Street," Georgiana replied to the question.

"*** Street? What good luck! It is near to our new seamstress. We shall go tomorrow morning without delay and get a music book for Mary. Thus she would have it as soon as you return," said Lizzy looking at Kitty. "If we are lucky I suppose by noon we would have finished our visit to the new seamstress and the shop will be still open."

Jane, who was seeing to the shoelace of one of the boys, commented, "By the way, I hope we would like her works."

"Do you know any good seamstress fashionable but not too much in fashion?" asked Kitty to Georgiana.

Georgiana dared to speak again. "My favourite seamstress makes beautiful models that tend to last." She paused, and saw Lizzy's pleasant countenance listening to her with interest. This encouraged the girl, so she added, "They always seem elegant, and always on fashion at the same time. Mrs. Annesley helps me to add some new details when a new season comes." The rest of the girls appreciated Georgiana's modesty, as she could have renewed all her wardrobe every year.

"Please, tell us the address." Said Jane. "I am not sure of liking entirely the style of Mrs. Rhea". The girl gave Jane precise indications to find the place and then approached discreetly to her brother and whispered a few words to him. He nodded.

Mr. Bennet stood up and started to settle the hour to meet that evening at the theatre, which all the party would attend. Everybody fixed their attention to the appointment and said the farewell to the Hursts and Miss Bingley, except Darcy, who was looking at Lizzy, offering her his arm.

The party started to move towards the Gardiners' house, and the couple kept some distance from the rest. Lizzy guessed that he sought some privacy to talk to her. Indeed, when he was free from being heard by others, Darcy spoke quietly to Lizzy.

"My dear Lizzy, I am looking forward the moment to show you your new home in London." Lizzy was delighted and surprised, and felt full of love for him. She was happy to find in Darcy's countenance that he was equally moved.

My dear Mr. Darcy she thought.

He continued speaking. "I would like to host a familiar gathering to supper tomorrow, if you agree." His tone was lower and he had a tender look in his eyes.

She held his gaze and tightened her hand around his arm.

"I would be delighted to. My wish to see our home as soon as possible is strong."

Darcy stroked Lizzy's hand and kept his over hers.

She talked again. "I confess I have had no chance to think about the house itself. All my thoughts have been devoted to how confusedly happy I feel. It is now four days since we got engaged!" She beamed.

"Four days" he repeated, smiling. He was amazed that their daily routine was the same as ever, but their lives had changed forever. "I have to confess in return that I had planned many things at Rosings... and planned again, when we met in Pemberley."

Lizzy opened her eyes in wonder, and it made him smile again.

"I could not help it. I am used to arrange and provide. At Rosings the task seemed necessary, as I was sure I would be accepted." He explained. "Then, I had no hope, but I rejoiced in torturing me thinking how my life would be. Then again, after our meeting in Pemberley, I had very little hope, but I began to think and plan more."

Both were equally surprised to talk about the painful past so easily. But the engagement had changed the way they looked at the past. As the present was happy and the future promising, they could not fear talking about the past anymore, as all its pain seemed to have a reason in its former existence and all it helped to reach their present happiness.

"So you have everything planned already! I do not know whether to admire your prevision, fear your control or oppose your officiousness," she teased, with a smile.

He laughed. "I did not expect less from you than opposition to my officiousness. As for your admiration, it is something I am eager to win. But, please, dear Elizabeth, do not ever think you could fear me."

" I must give an answer to this," she said, beaming. "You won my admiration months ago, Mr. Darcy. I will provide an exact date of when it started, if you want, but it will take some time, as I had not planned it." Darcy laughed again. " As for my opposition, you have it secured, as it is that arguing with you is my favourite pastime." He laughed again.

"I deserve it," he said.

"Certainly." She nodded, laughing. "However, I agree that fear has not, and should not have, a place between us. I remember Mrs. Reynolds' words."

"Mrs. Reynolds?" He repeated.

"Your... our housekeeper," she explained. He smiled and caressed her hand again, but he did not speak and just nodded, willing to hear more. "When we visited the rooms of Pemberley, she told us of your good natured character, your good temper, and over all, your kind heart. I have had the chance of confirm this is true."

He sighed, and said, "I wish you had had a better understanding of my character under more joyful circumstances."

"I wish it too, but those were the events, and I am deeply grateful of your kindness. I am glad that you showed so much loyalty on our friendship when we barely had had time to be friends."

"I have to admit that, although I had small hope in you loving me, I felt at Pemberley that we had a real bond of friendship. I saw it clearly when my poor sister had to hear Wickham mentioned and you helped her to feel at ease again. We had argued and exchanged painful truths, but still we both shared a secret and protected my sister. I could not, and would not, act less loyally than you."

Lizzy said, "It is only your good heart that I cannot help noticing beyond those facts. My assistance to Georgiana cannot be compared with what you did for Lydia. I did nothing remarkable. But you did. Thanks to you, my sister is no longer the object of anxiety and pain." She looked tenderly at him.

Darcy replied at once "I wish you would be kinder and more sincere with yourself. You did what you could and so did I. I only had a better chance to show my loyalty and my love. That you are so inclined to think about my goodness only shows your own good heart."

They had reached the Gardiners' home, so Lizzy said in a low voice to Darcy "You are very wicked, Mr. Darcy. You give me no choice than to admit I have a good heart, and this is a terrible way to end our argument." Darcy had to laugh again.

************

Continued in Part 3

Best Friends

By Nuria

Part 1|Part 2|Part 3|

Chapter 11
Darcy asked the Bennets and the Gardiners to attend his family supper.

"I am happy to say that we are not engaged elsewhere. We would be pleased to be your guests," said Mr. Bennet merrily, well aware of his daughter's happiness with the situation. Mrs. Bennet was beside him, all in a flutter.

However, on the day of the supper, Mrs. Bennet was not the only person who was anticipating the event. Kitty was anxiously counting the minutes left to her first visit to a play in the city. Time passed slowly for her, and finally, at the hour appointed, their carriages left them in front of the theatre.

For Lizzy and Jane it was a moment to keep as a cherished remembrance: they had visited that theatre before, but not in the company of Darcy and Bingley. It was a happy hour for them. They could see how people looked at them, holding the arms of those gentlemen. They raised many comments of approval. Some people approached them to greet Darcy and Bingley, and thus the Bennet sisters were introduced to many new acquaintances and friends. Most of them were invited to attend the ball, and therefore were informed of the engagement in this very moment. The couples received the warmest congratulations, and those new friends amiably and kindly addressed the girls. This made Miss Bingley lose part of her composure, making disdainful comments about country people to her sister. Mrs. Hurst, aware that the rant could be heard by others, and thus would work against Caroline's future interests, led her to the seats.

After a while, the party entered the stalls room. Kitty tried not to gape, so beautiful were the interiors of the theatre. It was an old place but it had been taken care well, so time added beauty to the building. An usher showed them their seats. The older people and the Hursts sat. Mr. Bingley pointed to the ornate ceiling and Kitty exclaimed she had never imagined such a beautifully elaborated piece of decoration. Miss Bingley was bored of the girl's raptures and sat with her sister.

"It gives me vertigo to think how they painted that scene. They must have used very high scaffolding," said Kitty.

The group then admired the fine details of the balconies, until the first call that announced the play was about to begin.

The play was an old comedy, well known and a favourite to Darcy and Lizzy. The audience was having a very pleasant time. At a certain point, Lizzy turned to see Darcy laughing, a sight that warmed her heart and made her feel happy.

I love it when you laugh she thought, admiring his merry countenance.

Darcy noticed Lizzy's look, and taking her hand, held it tightly. She felt all the force of their love. Suddenly, the audience laughed again and they looked at the stage again for a moment. Then, they exchanged a short glance and a smile, and he kept her hand held in his as late as the end of the play.

After the play, they had promised to attend a supper at Hursts'. The invitation had been made the day before, and was much more a question of obligated social arrangement than the desire of the Hursts and Miss Bingley to celebrate the engagements.

The food was plentiful and rich, pleasing Mr. Hurst's tastes, and the table was heavily adorned, pleasing Mrs. Hurst's tastes. The hosts were correct but boring, and did not do much to keep their guests, with the result of the early dissolution of the party. That only pained Mrs. Bennet, who praised endlessly the furniture, the food and any other thing that met her glance. The pain of the young couples caused by the soon parting was lessened by the thought of many other meetings to follow soon. None of them felt at ease at Hursts', and even the young girls were extremely quiet.

The following day, Monday the 18th October, Bingley and Darcy spent the morning comparing their lists of guests for the ball and preparing the invitations. They decided to choose Bingley's house instead of Darcy's, which was grander, because Darcy's circle of friends and acquaintances was not only smaller than Bingley's, it was also mainly formed of friends and acquaintances of Bingley's.

Thanks to the short time the party had spent the evening before at the Hursts', the Bennets were ready early in the morning. Thus, Mrs. Bennet and her daughters arrived early at the shop of Mrs. Rhea, the seamstress who did work for Miss Bingley and Mrs. Hurst.

Lizzy was surprised when she saw Mrs. Rhea, because the lady was younger than she had thought, and her air was reminiscent of that of Miss Bingley, but with a desire to please, instead of to parade over. Lizzy decided not to judge on first impressions, and to wait until they were showed the fabrics and models. When she was shown the designs, she confirmed what she had suspected -- that she would not use the models the Bingley sisters used. When they had a brief moment, she expressed her views. Jane was of the same opinion: the models were too complicated and trimmed to suit her taste. Kitty was glad to hear that as she desired to favour the seamstress suggested by her new friend. However, Mrs. Bennet had found all the models of the most exquisite taste, so she decided to order her gown for the wedding, and if she did not order more work for Mrs. Rhea it was only because her daughters had restrained her until they knew the real cost of the garment.

It was not noon yet when they exited Mrs. Rhea's shop. The music shop was very near, and Mrs. Bennet was not very much interested in visiting it, so she stopped at a jewellers next door to the music shop, and immediately realised that her daughters really needed a pearl collar each, with earrings and a bracelet to match.

"You must have pearls, my dears. They are exquisite and elegant, and you can afford to wear them daily. Now, I had not thought about it, but you must have something elegant to daily wear. To suit your pearls. You can forget your dresses. They were right for girls, but you are much more than that now. A new evening dress and a new morning dress for each of you will do for the moment. Of course, you will have to have new... Oh, what a lovely necklace! You must have one, for the evening dress! ..."

Mrs. Bennet was enraptured, and none of the girls wanted to interrupt her. Kitty was delighted to hear such tales of wealth and fashion, Jane was too sweet to disappoint her mother, and Lizzy knew it was pointless to induce in her mother some sense and tell her they were happy without pearls. After all, the good woman only wished the best for them.

Mrs. Bennet decided to see more necklaces and ask the prices of the pearls. She kept Jane and Kitty, and Lizzy went to the music shop.

Lizzy saw through the shop window that there was a gentleman talking to Mr. Beresford inside the shop. When she entered, she realized with delight that the gentleman was Mr. Darcy. Lizzy expressed her surprise, and for her amusement, she noticed he was not surprised to meet her.

"I am afraid that this morning I am the object of one of your plans" she commented in a low voice while they looked on several music books.

Darcy looked intently at a book, but he was laughing very softly.

Then, Mr. Beresford produced a new book and so warmly recommended it that it was the chosen one. Outside the shop they met Mrs. Bennet and the girls.

"What a happy coincidence," shrilled Mrs. Bennet.

"I had to talk about the pianoforte with Mr. Beresford," said Darcy, with an embarrassed look that only Lizzy recognized.

"Is Georgiana coming to dinner at Gardiners' today?" asked Kitty.

"She is. Actually, I am on my way home to take Georgiana to the Gardiners'," answered Darcy.

"Happy thought, indeed!" cried Mrs. Bennet. "Where is your handsome barouche? You can take some of us to the Gardiners'. I have had enough walking today".

"I am sorry to say that I did not take the barouche this morning, madam. The weather was very inviting for a morning walk," replied Darcy hastily.

"Then your house is very near. Good! We shall see it," replied Mrs. Bennet.

"It is a pleasant walk, but it takes more than half an hour, madam," said Darcy.

"What a pity, Mr. Darcy! Anyway, in a few hours we shall see it, although a house, to be properly admired has to be visited on daylight hours." Immediately repenting her reproach to Mr. Darcy, she added. "That is why I am so sorry to be neglecting my new family so much. I am the busiest woman these days, you know, but I promise I will be the most attentive mother to you."

She turned to Lizzy saying, "If you are in the mood for more walking, dear, you may have a good look at your future house now."

"I am not tired, and I would really see it," said Lizzy.

Darcy offered her his arm, and said, "Then we should go now, to be at the Gardiners' on time."

Someone had to accompany Mrs. Bennet to the Gardiners' and neither Jane, nor Kitty would interfere in the lovers' walk, so they said goodbye to the couple and looked for a carriage.

"Well, well, Mr. Darcy, you have shown your mastery at achieving complicated plans," said Lizzy when they were round the corner.

"Dear Elizabeth, you puzzle me. What are you talking about?" said Darcy.

"You knew I intended to visit Mr. Beresford's shop at noon," she said accusingly with a smile.

"Of course I knew. I always pay attention to your words, and you said you were going there yesterday," he said, smiling too.

"So you admit you came only to see me," she teased.

"I am delighted to see you, my dear Elizabeth, but I must say that I had to discuss with Mr. Beresford some trouble Georgiana has had with the pianoforte," said Darcy.

Lizzy looked at Darcy, half believing him, half unwilling to believe him. There was something mischievous in his amiable countenance that led her to say, "I think you planned to show me the house without involvement of other people, as the only way to see it calmly. As a regard for my emotions on seeing it, It is an important moment for us both, and you do not want to miss my first impression of it paying attention to anyone else."

"I am happy that I am going to show the house to you alone," he said earnestly, stroking her hand in his arm. "But you miss the fact that I really had to go to the shop without delay and that the morning was too beautiful not to walk." He said this in a lighter tone.

"Mr. Darcy, how could you admit you have been planning again! " she laughed.

"I am admitting nothing more that things have occurred in a very favorable way this morning," he said, in triumph.

Lizzy could see very well that he was just encouraging her teasing.

They enjoyed all the features of their walk. The weather was as benevolent as it could be in late autumn in London; they strolled on elegant streets, passing by elegant people, nodding at some; they glanced at every interesting shop window. Book shops, music shops, tea-rooms, jewelers, flower shops, art shops, milliners', cobblers', print shops and galleries, which they commented as they walked past them.

The house was larger than any other Lizzy had visited in town. The square was elegant, with brown-leafed trees in front of the beautiful facade of the Darcys' home. The rooms were large and fitted up with the finest good taste, with every comfort that money could afford, but suited for people who did not want to boast about how rich they were.

Darcy was eager to know Lizzy's opinion of the house. He was very happy to have the best to offer her, as it was in some part due to his good administration. He was proud of the house but he felt also that kind of unpretentiousness that some kind-hearted men feel towards their beloved, thinking that nothing is good enough for her. He was sensible of the fact that he had been born with all the possible advantages of society. He was the first son of a very rich gentleman, which secured his comfort and that of his sister. Although Darcy abhorred the way Mrs. Bennet behaved, he admitted in his heart that had he been the mother of five girls in an entailed estate, he would have lived in anxiety for their future. Darcy was aware that his Elizabeth could have lived as a companion or governess had not she married for love. It was not in her character to marry to secure her living. She would rather had procured it herself teaching and taking care of other people's children, and this thought added more joy to the present moment, as it was in his hands, or more accurately, in his love, to protect her from a very sad life.

Georgiana was ready when they arrived but she did not want to interfere, and excused herself before they were gone. She had to find a book in the library she had promised to lend Kitty.

Lizzy was not surprised by the elegance of the furniture, nor for the beauty of the paintings. She had expected those things, and thus, the lack of surprise gave her a feeling of anticipated comfort, as she was ready to accommodate there and make dear every detail of the house.

"How beautiful!" she said, admiring a painting of Greek ruins. Then she laughed and Darcy looked at her surprised. "You w ill start to think I do not know more words than "beautiful" and "lovely""

Darcy smiled. "Not at all. I hoped that your comments were those you have made. I am happy that you approve of the house."

"How could I not? It is not only a quite elegant house, it is also a comfortable home." She paused, a little awkwardly.

Darcy noticed her contented countenance and encouraged her. "You can speak openly to me, my dear," he said, smiling.

She blushed and looked the painting intently. "I must say that if the furniture and paintings were different, I would love them with equal sentiments." She paused again, but Darcy would not interrupt her. "My partiality to any place which is your home makes it dear to me."

"I expect us to be very happy here in our home." Darcy took her hand and kissed it tenderly, and Lizzy really believed her life would be happier than she never dared to think, as she realized that her love would be deeper every day. She met his eyes in a look full of love as they walked out of the room.


Chapter 12
It could not be said that she was not listening. It would be true to say that Mrs. Gardiner was patiently hearing, for the third time, Mrs. Bennet's tale of how surprised Mrs. Reynolds and Lady Lucas had been when they heard about the engagement between her intelligent Lizzy and Mr. Darcy. Mrs. Bennet's tale was being enhanced with comparisons of her sons-in-law. Wickham was no longer a favourite, as the fortunes of Bingley and Darcy made them much more handsome and agreeable to her eyes. She had forgotten the hours of grief poor Jane had suffered, and Darcy had been always an open and amiable gentleman to her family, according to her own record.

"Mrs. Reynolds was crying out with happiness. I almost feared for her, sister, and was about to get my salts or ask for a soothing tea. She declared Lizzy the most lucky and intelligent girl in the world. But you had to see Lady Lucas' countenance! Oh, dear! I wish her all the best in the world, but when it comes to settle a child, you have to be most serious. I am sure she has had second thoughts about having encouraged Charlotte to marry Mr. Collins. I know she will have Longbourn in time -- in a long, long time, I hope. My dear Mr. Bennet must stay with me and see the new lives of our children. But as we are very good friends, I assured Lady Lucas that her Maria will marry much better than Charlotte, and that's saying something, as Longbourn is a very good estate. I am sure that among my daughters' new friends there will prove to be more than two bachelors to settle the remaining girls. Of course, Kitty will have to marry better than Maria does, as her family will provide the society of these new rich gentlemen...

Mrs. Gardiner saw no point commenting on such well-meditated plans, as Mrs. Bennet did not care for rational conversation. She just smiled and said, "I hope the girls will marry well to fulfill your expectations of settlement and their expectations of happiness, as your elder daughters have done."

Some things must end, and the rambling of Mrs. Bennet found its end when the carriage reached Mr. Darcy's home. She was entirely disposed to be impressed by the house, and such was her admiration that she found no more words than "Dear, oh, my dear" for a long while. She was just capable of gaping and pressing her husband's arm. It was truly an expensive house in every detail, and she was not only impressed for the house itself, but for all the other things that still remained to be seen. She remembered suddenly Lizzy's trip to Derbyshire during the summer, to which she had not paid attention at all, as she had not foreseen anything interesting connected with it. But Mrs. Gardiner could say something about the estate the Darcys had there. Hours later, when Mrs. Gardiner related to her sister-in-law their visit, was one of the few times when Mrs. Bennet had listened full of attention and without interruption, just gaping again at her own good luck and placing a palm over her heart, to keep it quiet.

Lizzy was delighted to see that her mother's admiration of her future richness left her without words for a while. The party touring the house was large, but Darcy found moments, on their own, to steal a glance from Lizzy or press her hand out of the notice of others.

"Mr. Darcy, I have had an interesting conversation with Georgiana."

He smiled, as he could see she was about to tease him again. She continued. "Her pianoforte was a source of distress this morning, when you realized that it had a slight scratch on a key. It is not a surprise that you had to run to Mr. Beresford's."

He laughed softly and said, "So you approve of my diligent errand." Then, they joined the rest of the party.

The dinner was very pleasant to all, not only for the delicious food or the beautiful rooms, but also because it was beginning to dawn on everybody that they were a very comfortable and pleasant party. They began to feel more at ease in the company of the others, and really began to find real pleasure in the society of the new members of the families.

After the coffee was served, Bingley produced an envelope from his pocket and gave it to Kitty.

"Miss Catherine," he said beaming. Darcy, whoÊ was standing at his side, smiled to her too.

Kitty looked at Georgiana inquiringly, but the girl looked equally intrigued and made no answer. Kitty opened it, and read the note.

To Miss Catherine Bennet 
We are pleased to invite you to 
a ball party next *** , at the * of ***Street.
Charles Bingley

Fitzwilliam Darcy

She never had such an unexpected and pleasant surprise, and she showed it, by being at first confused and without words, and then uttering many expressions of gratitude. Georgiana smiled also with gratitude to her brother, and soon the fuss attracted the attention of everybody, with several nods of approval and smiles.

Such an invitation was unnecessary, but Bingley and Darcy were already attentive elder brothers who knew Kitty might fear she would miss the possibility of attending such a ball, so the card was a meant to soothe her anxiety.

It had been Bingley who commented to Darcy on the enthusiasm of the young girl for balls and her anxiety for not to have the possibility of attending the ball they were to host. Darcy had truly a kind heart, but his disposition was introverted, so to know his new family better, he had to make an effort double that of another person would have had to make in the same circumstances. Bingley did not have to make any effort at all, as, due to his open ways and his attentive disposition to the ease of others, he already knew the Bennet family fairly well. He knew Mr. Bennet the least, as the gentleman had not given the younger man many opportunities to talk to him. They had scarcely talked together, as Mrs. Bennet had warned the old gentleman not to interfere at any time Bingley had paid a visit to Jane. Thus, Mr. Bennet had been happily confined in his library, thereby reducing his knowledge of Bingley to the meals and engagements they had enjoyed together.

Despite these circumstances, and the few words they had exchanged beyond the ones that politeness required, each one had formed a very good opinion of the other. Mr. Bennet already liked Bingley when he left Netherfield in November, but he had learned to appreciate Bingley far more after Lydia's marriage. When he had first visited Bingley in Netherfield he had found an intelligent man, of good temper and with a sense of humour that was not foolish, a man who could hold his own, somewhat clever and witty. Of course, Bingley had also been an object of Mr. Bennet's amusement and attention for some time, because his looks and his attentiveness betrayed he was very much in love with Jane. However, it was a shocking discovery for Mr. Bennet to find that Bingley's closest friend, Darcy, had as a good heart as that of Bingley. Mr. Bennet had noticed from the beginning of their acquaintance that Darcy was far less naturally gifted to engage in conversation and less inclined to please strangers than his friend, so Mr. Bennet had chosen not to seek out his company, as he seemed unlikely to enjoy Mr. Bennet's jokes. It was shocking now, indeed, to see how Darcy addressed him and Mr. Gardiner as if he really cared for their welfare and their opinions, and indeed still more shocking to see how happy was his dear Lizzy, and to know what he had done for Lydia.

The explanations that Lizzy had given him, the permission Darcy asked, had led his mind to perplexity and wonder. Hours later, the noisy happiness of Mrs. Bennet and the fuss caused for the arrangement of the travel to London, did not help to let his mind understand what had happened. Lizzy's words had been sincere, and her father was anxious to believe her. The interview with Darcy had been equally surprising, as Mr. Bennet feared Mr. Darcy was only in want of a wife, but he had expressed more depth of feeling than a mere infatuation that her beauty could warrant. He had talked about love, of an attachment on his side almost since he had met Lizzy, of deep admiration of the many good qualities of her mind and her heart.

Mr. Bennet had been most pleased to hear Lizzy spoken of thus, and still more to find it said by a wealthy man who was known to utter few words and never of appreciation. He hastened in his heart and his mind to think the best of Darcy, but it was not until they were at the Gardiners' when he reached peace on this subject, and it was thanks to Jane.

She was aware that she had been Lizzy's only confidante, and she knew how extremely surprising the engagement could be for the rest of the family. She did not fear for her mother or her sisters, as they were fast in believing everything possible with no regard to the past. But their father was different, and Jane guessed correctly that although he seemed content, he was confused. Jane intended to talk to her father after that evening, once they had returned to the Gardiners'. When the rest of the house was getting ready to bed, she went to the library, where she expected to find him alone.

"Papa."

"Jane! Are you not tired, dear?" said Mr. Bennet.

"Yes." She smiled sweetly, but she took a seat next to his father's. "I wanted to talk with you before I go to bed."

"All right, my dear. I guess what you want to discuss. And I will not delay your rest. I like Bingley exceedingly as he loves you like a fool. There you are"

Jane laughed softly and leaned to kiss her father's cheek. "I know and I am so glad..."

He interrupted her. "Of course I like him. He is going to pay your gowns for ever!"

She shook the head, laughing again. "You will tease me for ever, too!"

"I cannot help it, my dear. To see you so happy makes me happy too, and that irremediably puts me in a teasing mood where no other than you and your beloved are the objects of my amusement."

Jane took advantage of the comment. "I suppose you have noticed Lizzy is very happy too?"

"Certainly. Certainly. She is very happy." But his countenance had changed a little, becoming less relaxed.

"It must have been such a surprise to you," said Jane.

Mr. Bennet sighed. "It was, indeed. I would have never expected it, I confess." Then, as he noticed his melancholy tone of voice, added more cheerfully, "I am very happy for her, too." Jane smiled but did not say a word, encouraging his speech. Then, he added, as it dawned on him, "You were in the secret." He was not being reproachful. He simply wanted not to appear too unaware of everything that happened to his girls. He assumed Jane should have been the matchmaker between Mr. Darcy and Lizzy.

Jane felt relieved, as Mr. Bennet seemed not offended, just curious. "I was not." She smiled at his gesture of surprise. "For some months, I have known that Mr. Darcy was in love with Lizzy. However, Lizzy never said she returned same feelings. I hoped much more than knew that she would love him too, but this was not at all certain for me until she told me that she had accepted Mr. Darcy."

Jane paused, but her father would not interrupt her, so she went on. "I was surprised too, but it was soon overcame, as I realized that I had been misled by Lizzy in the matter. At first, I think she was too prejudiced to see how good Mr. Darcy was, and then, when she knew him better, she did not want to entertain any hope that he could return her new feelings."

Here Mr. Bennet defended his child. "Why she could not want to entertain any hope of a return of feelings? She is beautiful and intelligent, and that is something a gentleman like Mr. Darcy notices and appreciates. I cannot believe she found herself not worthy of him."

Before her father could go on, Jane made haste to explain. "I am afraid that Lydia's imprudent and disgraceful behaviour made her think she had fallen into disgrace, too."

Mr. Bennet was shocked to find out that Lizzy had suffered more from his former inconsistencies and inattention as a father. Although he was about to speak, apologize and express wonder, Jane did not let him interrupt her.

"Of course, Mr. Darcy's behaviour concerning the matter gave her a fair measure of his steady good opinion of her. This must have removed her fears, and when they met again at Longbourn, the happy result was an understanding between them, and the engagement."

"He really has shown himself to be the best friend our family could wish for in a time of trouble," he said thoughtfully. "I am afraid that we did not justice to him."

"Do not blame yourself, father. There have been faults on both sides, but it is of no importance now. They are happy and have forgiven each other and others everything. We should forget as well. The only reason I constantly had a good opinion of Mr. Darcy, is that he was the best friend of Mr. Bingley, but this good opinion was confirmed when I learnt what he had done for us," said Jane.

"I am sorry Jane. I am so sorry," he sighed. He was now aware of what worries his elder daughters had suffered due to his failings. He could not blame Lydia, as he always had known she was a foolish and witless girl.

Jane saw in dismay that her efforts to relieve his father's surprise were making him wretched. He talked again in a sad tone.

"You also suffered. I am very sorry." Jane tried to hide her distress on hearing this, but her countenance showed enough. Her father's eyes went wet and Jane, moved, sat up, reached over to her father and embraced him. She could not help crying at the sight of his pain. After a moment she had comforted and reassured him. They dried their tears, relieved, and Mr. Bennet was soon amused, realizing the humor of the situation, as he said "Look what a pair of fools we are, crying when we should be resting. Have a good rest, Jane. You are engaged now, and one of you two has to sleep, as I'm sure Mr. Bingley is so besotted that he cannot sleep at all."

That made Jane shake her head and smile, before saying good night, and climbing the stair to her room.


Chapter 13
The schedule for purchases was being kept without delay. On Monday afternoon, they went to the seamstress suggested by Georgiana, with the satisfying outcome they wanted. Jane and Lizzy liked the place very much. The seamstress used the best fabrics and had the ability to suit the different tastes of her customers. The patterns chosen by the sisters were simple and very becoming on them. They also took some fabric for the shoemaker.

The following day, Mr. Bennet finally went to his tailor to try on his waistcoat. Kitty also had some work to do, as she had to try on not only her gown, but the one sewn for Mary, too. Kitty exclaimed, "I have not seen a more simple and boring dress in a wedding! It is quite vexing to see how Mary will lessen the air of elegance for the rest of the family!"

Jane reminded her, "We should respect Mary's wishes to have a modest appearance."

Kitty's ill mood, however, was not only caused by her sister's poor sense of fashion, for she was bound to return home that afternoon with her father, and she did not want to leave the city so soon. Her low mood was noticed by her sisters, and by the rest of the party. One of the most hateful things is to see a merry young girl sad, so every member of the party who attended the family dinner at the Gardiner's tried to soothe her mood. Mr. Bennet was not much help, "You may be of use, Kitty, helping to convince Mary not to sing at the wedding."

Neither was Mrs. Bennet, telling Kitty, "You would not enjoy the following days in London, as we only intended to attend a few gatherings, more shops and mayhap the opera."

Kitty would have been at the verge of tears if it had not been for the hasty intervention of Georgiana, who assured the girl that she would write to her every day lest Kitty miss any important news before the day of the ball arrived.

Georgiana soothed her new friend, saying, "You are not going to miss anything of consequence, as the only truly important gathering is the day of the ball, and you will attend it for sure."

Lizzy was the most sensible of them and said to Kitty, "We need you to help Mary with the music, so that she chooses happy songs. Otherwise you know she will rather practice serious songs, and tell her it is necessary to devote all her attention to the pianoforte." Lizzy agreed with Kitty in thinking that Mary could ruin the wedding breakfast.

Mr. Bennet and Kitty departed and said their farewell until the day of the ball. Kitty was a bit more comforted with the promise that Jane had made of going together to the theatre as soon as they could after the wedding trips.

Mr. Bennet bade farewell to Lizzy in his own fashion. "You and Jane are very cruel indeed, Lizzy," he said in a low voice. "After years of mocking friends and family you have found a good revenge. I cannot make fun of them," he said referring to Darcy and Bingley, "sensible and intelligent men as they are. You force me to be sensible and intelligent in my turn, and after of years of starvation of good conversation I do not know if my conversation is of the stature of theirs."

When father and daughter were accommodated in the carriage, a servant of the Hursts suddenly arrived with their excuses for being engaged elsewhere thus making impossible saying adieu to them.

The following day brought a rainy morning, on which they visited the new seamstress, where the new morning and evening gowns were ordered. In the afternoon they purchased material to curtains and net curtains to match the new upholstery.

Thursday arrived with more rain and a sore throat for Jane, so they decided to stay at the Gardiners' for the rest of the day. Hopefully, the Bennets thought, the dullness of the day would be alleviated by the arrival of Mr. Bingley, Mr. Darcy and Georgiana to dinner, which was now a settled appointment. However, the attentive and very much in love Charles Bingley excused himself and left the house after dinner, leaving the party a bit surprised, especially Jane, who hoped to get all the tender attentions of her fiancée.

But the mystery was solved within minutes, as no more than a half an hour later Bingley reappeared and with the delightful surprise of a parcel for Jane. She discovered a full set of drawing pencils, watercolors and every other thing needed for an amateur artist. Jane expressed all her delight with a few expressive words for all to hear that showed she was lately willing to draw and many more words impossible to be reproduced as they were to be heard only by Bingley.

Darcy was curious of the matter and asked Lizzy: "I thought she was not fond of drawing?"

Lizzy was beaming. "I am afraid that the close acquaintance of Mr. Bingley makes Jane want to improve in many ways." Darcy smiled. Suddenly, she added, "I wonder if your acquaintance is improving me in any way, or maybe quite the contrary?" Darcy could not help a loud laugh.

Jane distributed some drawing paper for all the girls, as all were eager to try the new paints. Mrs. Gardiner suggested they began with something easier than a natural model, so she produced several painted sheets to be copied. Jane decided to copy a bunch of roses, and Lizzy preferred the drawing of a lion. Georgiana chose a landscape.

The afternoon was rather dull outside, but they had one of the merriest afternoons, drawing and coloring, showing each other the drawings and paintings. Jane's roses were decided to be as very beautiful, and Bingley asked to keep them. Georgiana's landscape was acknowledged as pleasant to the eye, and the Gardiner children begged to keep them, imitating Mr. Bingley who they adored very much. However, the most celebrated drawing was Lizzy's, who had portrayed the fiery lion extremely poorly, to the point of making him more like a big unkempt dog with a bad toothache, due to the difference of the cheeks.

When, days later, Mr. Bennet saw it, declared he had never seen such an inspiring drawing and that it must preside at his library. Lizzy was very proud of her work, as, she said, never had a lion given so much gaiety. Georgiana had hidden a smile with her hand. Jane also smiled but hastened to say that drawing they had lost their skill due to lack of practice. Mrs. Bennet approached Darcy and assured him that Lizzy was extremely accomplished in every other way, and that drawing was not an important issue, to all which Darcy agreed heartily, realizing that it was the first time he had ever sincerely agreed to any of Mrs. Bennet's statements.

The following day Bingley brought Jane another mysterious parcel. This time it was not something to be used indoors, but outdoors, as it was a beautiful scarf made of the softest wool. The present was very highly praised by all, both for the accuracy of it's being needed and for its own value as show of exquisite taste. Bingley admitted he had liked very much the scarf above all the others of the shops, but it was not until Miss Georgiana expressed her favorable opinion, that he decided to buy it. Jane felt very much loved and taken care of, and if she ever had felt sad about Bingley in the past months, it was all reduced to something smaller than a distant and unimportant memory, gaining for happiness the little space of sadness that she had could not avoid storing in the heart.

Darcy also had brought something to Lizzy. "I have a gift for you," he said, producing a book-shaped parcel. "To alleviate the dullness of rainy days, and due to the fact that drawing is not your best skill"

She laughed. "Will you ever stop teasing me about my drawings?"

"I am afraid not, my dear, I cannot waste such an opportunity. As I agreed with your mother yesterday, you are too accomplished in so many other ways." He took her hand and kissed it.

She blushed but kept her eyes steady. "Of course I will not let you think I am perfect."

Both laughed, and then he said, "You shall receive many gifts from me in the following years and my desire was to give you a very special first one. It could not be anything else than a book. This is a book that is not in Pemberley and that cannot be found anywhere else. I am looking forward to reading it. Open it."

Lizzy unwrapped the parcel and was very surprised to find that the book cover was red leather without any letters imprinted, and the pages were not printed.

"My dear Mr. Darcy! I must have a very bad influence on you, because you are teasing me constantly!"

Darcy laughed, "You love books as much as I do, so I give you one. But this one you will have to write it. Your intelligence and wit are not to be wasted and forgotten. You must apply your knowledge of the world and write about it."

She gaped for an instant, and then she protested, "I do not know if I could..." But Darcy could see she was thrilled by the challenge. He soothed her fears with a caress on her cheek. She raised her eyes to him, surprised.

"Dear Elizabeth, I am sure you would enjoy it." At that moment, much against her will, her eyes showed how much he loved him, and she wished to be only in his company to express it to him, as he had done the day he had declared. Soon enough she understood that such words must be said after the wedding day, because of the constant presence of others and the uninviting rush of the city for words that need quietness and solitude.


Chapter 14
The following morning the rain ceased for a few hours, which permitted, a walk to a park and a visit to a bookshop without much inconvenience, much to the delight of Darcy and Lizzy. However, the good weather never lasts long enough in late October, so they decided to delay the evening at the opera. Jane feared hard rain, as she wanted to prevent her light cold from turning into something worse. The rest of the party decided to remain with her, although she protested they should attend the very much-anticipated play. She hated to be the cause of their comparatively boring confinement when they should be at their seats in the opera palace.

"Dear, dear, it is of no consequence! There will be so many opportunities for you to go to the opera that soon you will be bored of it!" cried Mrs. Bennet, and then she laughed with pure happiness, as she did every time she thought of the secure and wealthy future of her daughters.

Jane acknowledged the truth in her mother's statement, and became more comfortable.

On Sunday, the rain could not prevent them attending to the Sunday morning service, although Jane still kept her resolution to remain at home. Monday followed much in the same fashion, and Lizzy decided to visit the seamstress with Mrs. Gardiner to explain a little change Jane wanted in the sleeves of her wedding gown, as they had discussed the possibility of her catching a cold due to the light material.

When they finished this errand, Mrs. Gardiner decided to have her gown for the celebration sewn there, and she asked Lizzy to wait in the room outside. Lizzy sat there patiently for a minute or two. Then, she decided she would rather be outside, as the rain was very scarce and thin, and she announced to the shop assistant that she would be in a bookshop nearby and would be back within minutes. The bookshop was just around the corner, but Lizzy did not get that far, as she saw Mr. Darcy himself waiting outside the shop.

"Mr. Darcy!" she exclaimed.

"Good morning," he replied. They both beamed at one another for a moment, for seeing each other and for the premeditation of him being there.

"Good morning! We met by pure chance again. We are very lucky," she teased

"We are, indeed." He offered his arm. "You are waiting for your aunt, I suppose?"

"Mr. Darcy, I am not going to ask you how do you know that." She smiled again and accepted his arm. "We could visit the bookshop around the corner."

"As you please," he said. Lizzy was extremely diverted.

Once in the shop, they examined the volumes on the bookshelves with interest.

"Ah, there, have you read this?" Darcy touched a large book with golden letters on its spine.

"No, I have not," his fiancé admitted.

"It's quite good indeed. But it should not be read hastily, it is to be read carefully."

Lizzy nodded, understanding him. They examined the nearby table. Then they exited the shop, and Lizzy stopped to look at the shop window.

" The Mysteries of Udolpho". Have you read it?" asked Lizzy.

Darcy looked the book with interest. "Do you recommend it?"

"Of course. It is silly and delusional. I think is Lydia and Kitty's favorite book. No wonder Lydia behaved as she did." She spoke quietly. "I am worried about Kitty. I am desperate when I think I must inspire her with sense. Although lately she seems to be doing well." Lizzy took his arm again.

"Do you blame yourself?" he asked with a very kind inflection.

"Somehow... Lydia never paid attention to Jane and me when we tried to correct her. It was such a hopeless task that we soon abandoned it. I think I must have devoted far much more time and efforts to her. I never tried to guide my younger sisters."

"And how is to be a good guide? I have always intended to be a guide to Georgiana and she was almost lost."

"You blame yourself, too"

"Yes"

"But there's hope for you because Georgiana has repented of what she did. Here is your influence. You have encouraged her good sense. She not only looks very intelligent to me, I also think she is a sensible girl. I am sure she has learned."

"She has learned too much," he said gloomily.

"After what happened to her, it was a matter of utter importance to learn. That is how her intelligence helped her. She could not remain in a state of blind innocence. I am afraid that Kitty is not so intelligent. She does not seem to regret what Lydia did."

"I am sure that you will be, that you are," he said emphatically "a very good example for Catherine, and with that of Miss Bennet she will become if not intelligent, sensible. Remember that you are not alone in this task. Bingley and I will be her brothers."

"She is a lucky girl" she smiled to him.

"As for Georgiana," he sighed and went on "I am sure she will not be in danger any more. But the damage is done. With a sensibility and shyness like hers I wonder if she would ever recover from the pain she has suffered at so delicate an age. I almost lost her. And lately, when she most needed consolation I have been of no help for her. I think I even depressed her more with my gloomy moods." He suddenly felt sorry for having said such thing because he was talking about Elizabeth's rejection.

Elizabeth was aware of it but did not feel embarrassed. She was anxious to give him some comfort. He was looking to the ground.

"You blame yourself again too much." She paused. "I must disagree with you, and very gladly so, because as I have said, I think Georgiana is intelligent and sensible. I am sure she has been in great pain, but the certainty of having escaped a most wretched life must have overcame that pain. I agree she surely needed consolation, and probably that left her in a low mood. It is natural Georgiana needing some cheering up. She is at an age where friends and laughter are sought and needed." she paused again. "I really am very glad that she and Kitty have become friends."

They were silent for a moment, Darcy's feelings soothed by Lizzy's words, and Lizzy reflecting of Georgiana. Then she spoke again. "The mutual confidence will grow and I am sure someday Georgiana will confide to me her fears, and then I will tell her how lucky she is and will encourage her hopes of finding a companion to share her life worthy of her good heart. Until then, I will not let her have a sad day if I can."

"My dear, the day I praised your heart, how short I was."

"Well, Mr. Darcy, I am not sure if you will think the same when you see that I tease you endlessly to amuse our sister."

"If it is so, my dear, Georgiana will be very shocked." But he was smiling. "Your good humor and your liveliness will be the best help for her."

He paused, squeezing the hand on his arm. "It is so easy to talk to you, dearest Elizabeth"

"Thank you," she said in a low voice. Then she added briskly "But now I realize that I should not be encouraging you to make schemes to arrange other people's lives."

They laughed softly.

Then Darcy spoke also in a light tone, "I am a man of fixed ways, but I count on you to help me to avoid any wrong action on this matter."

"Kitty and Georgiana will improve each other," he added more seriously.

They remained quiet for a while, until Darcy asked Lizzy.

"You are very silent."

She decided to share her thought. "I cannot help but wonder at the unexpected happy things that happen in life. That we are getting married soon is surprising, as it is to find that Kitty, at her present moment of life, could be of invaluable help for someone else. The conversation ended when Mrs. Gardiner joined them.

The good news of Jane's full restoration to health after her cold was joined a few days later to the arrival of Mr. Bennet and Kitty for the ball.

It can be said that the ball was a success, as it fulfilled every one's particular expectations:

Mrs. Bennet was pleased to see how, among Bingley's friends, there were three or four that could do very well for Kitty, and even for Maria, as Mrs. Bennet had now completely forgiven Charlotte for being the future mistress of Longbourn. Her future new sons' wealth made her very forgiving.

Miss Bingley and Mrs. Hurst were very much relieved when Mrs. Bennet did not embarrass them in front of other acquaintances and showed some fashion taste wearing colored feathers. Miss Bingley had the opportunity to dance with the several acquaintances present in the rooms and the hope of making stronger bonds.

Kitty and Georgiana were elated of being together again, and it was a delight to see the latter visibly happier in their company.

Bingley and Darcy gave their brides the rings symbolizing their engagements. And Jane and Bingley talked to family and friends and danced, while Darcy and Lizzy danced all the night together.

Mr. Bennet convinced his wife to come back to Longbourn as soon as possible, thus avoiding further expenses, as she had her eye set on more feathers, muslins, umbrellas, gloves, caps...

Two days later, the Bennets had arranged everything for the return and the party had gathered at Darcy's townhouse to say farewell until two days before the wedding.

Georgiana and Kitty counted the days until they would met again at the wedding, and the time before the return of Lizzy and Darcy from their wedding trip. In Kitty's words "it is an awfully long time". But Mrs. Bennet, who in spite of being very glad of getting rid of her daughters, also was very dependent on their company, suddenly clapped her hands and exclaimed that Miss Georgiana could stay at Longbourn, keeping also Mrs. Annesley's assistance.

Everybody agreed it was an excellent suggestion and for the second time Darcy wondered at how he agreed with Mrs. Bennet. Georgiana had not courage enough to make an open exhibition of her feelings and embrace his brother when he gave his permission, as Kitty did with her mother, but she happily held Kitty when she turned to embrace her.

The following day, the Bennets departed to Longbourn. Darcy and Georgiana traveled to Pemberley to give the good news of the wedding, arrange everything for the new mistress and their absence until they returned from the honeymoon. As he had to arrange Netherfield, Bingley felt very fortunate, as his path went along with that of Jane, so they did not have a painful parting. However, in the case of the other couple, it was hard to part. They had their thought fixed on the other, and their last words were often repeated in their minds to find some consolation.

"I will be missing your company. I will make haste to arrive to Netherfield as soon as I can."

"I will be waiting anxiously."


Chapter 15
It is generally known that Lizzy and Jane Bennet got married on the same day late in the autumn to Mr. Darcy, from Pemberley, Derbyshire, and to Mr. Bingley, recently established at Netherfield, Hertfordshire.

Very early that morning it was cold and freezing, but the feverish activity kept the occupants of Longbourn warm. The celebration of two happy weddings in the family made apparent all the vivacious nature of the family.

The night before, Lizzy and Jane slept fewer hours than they were accustomed to, although Mrs. Bennet had given them each a cup of soothing tea to help them sleep. They had been awake for some time, exchanging confidences and making their first plans. Both were happy, there are hardly any other words to accurately describe them.

While the soon-to-be brides were carefully dressing themselves, on their wedding morning, Mrs. Bennet rushed from one room to another, saying to Jane and Lizzy, "Oh, my dear, I am so happy!" and shedding tears. She confessed to Jane, "You do not know how consoling is to have you so near. I would die if you all left me!"

Then she said to Lizzy, "Derbyshire", and she sighed heavily.

"Mama, I will be able to visit you often. Mr. Darcy keeps a very good carriage."

That brightened Mrs. Bennet's countenance. "You are right. And how magnificent it is!"

Lizzy chose not to pay much attention to this comment, but she could not hide a smile.

Her mother, who was watching her, commented, "How lovely you look, my dear Lizzy. I hope you will be very very happy." Mrs. Bennet embraced her second daughter and kissed her cheek.

Lizzy could not avoid shedding a tear. She took her mother's hand and said, "Shall we see if Jane is ready?"

They entered Jane's room and both women exclaimed at the sight of her, such was her beauty.

"Madam, I have not seen a more beautiful bride, and I have seen many in all my life," said Mrs. Hill.

"Thank you," said Jane, blushing, making her face more beautiful.

Mrs. Bennet embraced her and kissed her lovingly.

The families at Netherfield were less active, although the household was very busy and excited, preparing the wedding breakfast. It cannot be known what Darcy and Bingley thought but the insightful eye could tell they were waiting anxiously and that they were very happy, in their frequent, pointless errands throughout the house, the constant consulting of their watches, the quiet smiles that sprang from sudden reveries and the merry but short conversations they started.

"I hope we will have good weather," commented Bingley briskly.

"So do I. Rain will be present some days, but I hope we will not have snow," replied Darcy. Few times had a weather conversation had been less futile. Darcy would never talk about the weather with Bingley if it were not important to them.

Then Darcy remembered he wanted to make sure there was chocolate to be served along with the coffee, and hastened out of the room. He knew that it was Lizzy's favorite way to take her coffee. When he returned, he found Bingley looking through the window.

"Shall we go to London or stay in Longbourn for Christmas?" asked Darcy hurriedly.

Bingley stirred. "You gave me quite a start." He smiled. "I was about to ask you. I think we should gather here, and I guess our wives will think the same."

Darcy agreed and sat, but a few moments later he rose and went to ask Mrs. Annesley if Georgiana was getting ready in time or they should ask for more help from the maids.

Bingley amusedly wondered what new errand had Darcy to accomplish, when he was assaulted by the doubt whether he had in his packages a golden bracelet that he intended to give Jane in the following days. Therefore he also exited the room hurriedly.

Georgiana was elated, and impatiently waited to see Kitty again, to meet Maria Lucas whom Kitty had spoken affectionately, and to join the Bennets for the time of the wedding trip. The girl was thoroughly delighted for her brother as she saw he was very much in love with the dashing Elizabeth Bennet. She also was happy for herself at the sight of all that she had gained with the union. In her mind, any woman who could make her brother offer his hand should be admirable and that had made her extend the admiration she devoted to her brother to her new elder sister.

The elation of her heart was also caused by having such a cheerful companion of her age as Kitty Bennet, and she hoped Maria Lucas would be also amiable, and without the affected address that Bingley's sisters showed towards her.

There was also a large amount of relief for the girl in the wedding of her brother. Georgiana had heard in the summer some comments made by Miss Bingley and Mrs. Hurst about the acquaintance of Lizzy with George Wickham, and it had been troubling her. In those days and until the day her brother had revealed the happy news of his engagement with Miss Elizabeth Bennet, she had feared Lizzy to be in real danger. She thought Lizzy must be presented with the real character of Wickham but she did not dare to think about telling her about it. It would have been most shocking to speak in unfavorable terms of anybody to such a recent acquaintance as Lizzy. Plus Miss Darcy's peculiar relationship with Wickham added such feelings of regret and shame to the issue that the mere thought about warning Lizzy made her feel most uncomfortable, even knowing full well that Miss Bennet will never speak of it. However, in those days of summer, after some reflection, Georgiana found consolation in her brother's friendship with Miss Lizzy, as he would never let a friend find a wretched life with Wickham.

She also hoped that Lizzy would appreciate all the merits that her brother had, and accept to be his wife. She had had no doubt of her brother's attachment to Lizzy, as he never had spoken about anyone in such a way and his behavior had been really odd and changing in the last months.

It was some time after the wedding, and from an unexpected source, that she heard about Wickham. It was unavoidable that Kitty talked about Lydia and her marriage. But the topic was talked of with nonchalance by Kitty, and Georgiana made an effort to refrain her curiosity and to soothe her altered feelings, and with a steady will and the fact of Lydia's estrangement from her family, she soon gained peace and some time after she did not even feel uneasy about it at all.

It is remarkable that the Hursts and Miss Bingley avoided their company until the moment to go to the church.

The ceremony was not too long and the wedding breakfast was extremely pleasant to all. The food was good and plentiful, and the music was well chosen and played, and did not make it impossible to have a conversation.

Mary and Georgiana played in turns, and all the party paid attention to Lizzy and Jane when they sang a few songs beautifully. The deep affection of the bridegrooms showed in their countenances when they beheld their brides. Darcy noted how Lizzy's voice showed more deep emotion, more color, than when she had sang at Rosings Park, and felt proud and elated he was the cause of those emotions.

An overjoyed Sir William Lucas, who was asking him and Bingley to sing, took him out of his reverie. "Mr. Darcy, Mr. Bingley. You should sing a duet with your lovely wives." The man was sincerely glad of these particular weddings, as he had heard from his wife Jane's sad story and had wished the girl would recover from her broken heart. He was glad that it had been Bingley who had restored her heart, as he thought him one of the most excellent young men in the world, very partial to balls and to cheerful conversation. He was also fond of the marriage of Darcy and Lizzy in particular because he had tried to make that match and had been a bit disappointed by his poor results.

This would seem his folly, but Sir Lucas had proven to be much more right than anyone sensible could have ever thought, because he really had had a part in the union of Mr. Darcy and Lizzy, and he was also right when he thought that the cause of Jane's broken heart had been a misunderstanding between the gentleman and the lady, because such a man as Bingley would never broke willingly the heart of a girl.

"I am sorry, I do not know any duets," apologized Darcy, although he did not say he had no intention of learning any, nor had he sang if he knew one, due to his shyness.

"Oh, I know some, but I am afraid it will be for the better of the celebration if I just listen instead of being listened to," said Bingley, beaming.

"It is a pity, indeed. I hoped to see you side by side with your wives singing for us," replied Sir William, disappointed.

"Do not think it a pity. If we cannot have the pleasure of hearing a good duet, we will have the pleasure of not hearing a bad one," said Mr. Bennet, making all of them laugh.

Lizzy was talking animatedly with Charlotte. Each one rejoiced in the other's happiness. "Maria is making a list with names of boys and girls, and guess which name she has written on the girls list."

"Maria?" asked Lizzy.

Charlotte nodded, and they laughed. She lowered her voice "Catherine is the second in the list! I like Kitty's name but I am determined not to use it. Maria says it is for Kitty, but I know that someone else did a huge impression over her already too impressionable young mind."

"I am afraid Mr. Collins may think Catherine is the best name, or Anne."

Charlotte smiled "He can have his opinion, but I will decide," she sighed. "We agreed that I would name our daughters and he would name our sons".

Lizzy laughed again.

"You are very smart!"

Charlotte smiled "I do not think I am. I am afraid I just observe people and thus I know them well enough to tell what they think. Remember about Mr. Darcy. I told you."

"Oh, dear! Did you?"

They laughed.

"I just observed him. He listened to you playing, he eavesdropped on your conversations, and he visited us just to see you."

Lizzy was about to protest, and Charlotte said, "You know it was just to see you." They laughed again.

The days before Lizzy regained a great deal of the intimacy she had had with Charlotte before her marriage with Mr. Collins. They had shared all the news of the last months, so it was Lizzy who chiefly had been talking. Charlotte also had things to comment upon.

"I was very glad when I heard the news. Your mother's nerves are nothing to Lady Catherine's, I assure you. Mr. Collins was afraid she could have an apoplexy. At first I was amused, as it was only a disappointment to her pride, but after a little while, it was highly disagreeable to stand her ill moods. There were no more obstacles for us to come here and visit you than Mr. Collins' objections, so I talked to her doctor and I commented my nerves needed peace and all the rest I could get, the doctor agreed and Mr. Collins was at once convinced by him."

When Lizzy had told her friend about her ladyship's visit, Charlotte told her, "I am now so accustomed to her character that sometimes I have to make efforts not to laugh openly at some of her comments. But I admit in the first weeks it was very hard. I have not met someone as interfering and offhanded. One could expect the most exquisite behavior from someone as grand as her, but I am afraid I have met few people as disagreeable and offensive. It was quite a shock. By the way, one of the first things that Lady Catherine condescended to tell me directly was that Lady Anne was going to marry her cousin Mr. Darcy. I have always thought that her schemes of marrying her daughter to Darcy were her wish and nothing more, especially after his behavior towards you at Rosings. Now I am convinced it was all her fancy. After what you have told me I am sure that he is a man of great honor. If he chose to court a lady in front of his cousin and aunt it is because he had no intentions whatsoever towards his cousin and, of course, no previous engagement with her."

The reader might be unwilling to know how Mr. Bingley's sisters liked the day, but they must know at least that Mrs. Hurst, once that Mr. Darcy was no longer a possible object for her sister, was completely indifferent and therefore, her attention was drawn to its natural place, which was the dresses of the ladies and the wealth shown at the wedding breakfast.

As for Miss Bingley, she did not want to think better of Miss Eliza Bennet than of herself, although she had enough proof of herself being quite different from the other. Not knowing from her experience what was love, she was willing to avoid the sight of happiness of others. A sight she did not understand, did not want to behold and was unable to share. After all she had liked Mr. Darcy's position, wealth and good looks more than she loved him and she decided to think these were the things that Lizzy liked of Mr. Darcy. She was anxious to return to the city, where she could begin to build and strengthen a few friendships that could improve her life, after the one she had schemed for had become impossible. The only pleasure she could have gotten from the wedding, that was to show to all the assembly her superior taste and appearance, was ruined by being constantly bothered by Mrs. Bennet, Mrs. Long, Mrs. Philips and other tiresome women praising her gown or asking where she had got the material.

Both Bennet sisters, in their own way, had been anxious after their engagements, although less Jane than Lizzy, as Jane moved within her neighborhood. Lizzy would start her new life away from her family and specially her dear Jane and her father. However, this anxiety was lessened by Darcy, who by that time knew his Lizzy much better than in past times, guessing that at the beginning of their life together, she could feel a bit lonely. So he proposed Bingley to make the newlyweds trip together. Bingley agreed, as he would do anything to make his friends happier, and the news were gladly heard by Lizzy and Jane, and thereafter, Lizzy felt much more at ease. She warmly expressed her gratitude to her dear Darcy. She gazed him fondly, who each day grew still more in her esteem and suddenly laughed. Darcy was surprised and asked her the reason of her laughter.

"It is hilarious." She was beaming, and he was also, observing her in wonder. "I remember how Jane used to say how strongly Bingley assured her that you were the best friend one could have."

"You find that hilarious?" He asked, confused.

"I must explain this: I find hilarious my intense mistrust of his words by the time. I could not be more prejudiced! You know how I regret it, but now I also find it extremely amusing."

"One of the most painful times of my life, and yours also. But still you find its funny side. I am thankful of your good humor. You are a blessing. You are the best friend I could have".

Lizzy was so impressed by his words that she did not answer, but when the sensation of complete felicity softened, she thought she would invent some teasing way to make him pay for leaving her speechless.

************

Finis


© 2004 Copyright held by author
   
    